Video Title: Vibe Design with Google Stitch
Duration: 09:16

Transcript:

00:01, Alright, so I want to talk about Google Stitch. It is a product
00:06, from Google, to kind| to, like, almost what I call is, like, a vibe design. So what it means is that if you want to design an app or a website, so you can choose one of the two.
00:17, And actually, let, let Stitch know. It's almost like Figma in some way, but much more vibing around that.
00:25, And it allows you to kind| to, like, just, build out the product. So, in this particular case, let me take an example of something
00:35, So, here I have a prompt where I'm saying, hey, build me, designs for marketers for AI agents. So what we're doing is we're building a marketplace for AI agents, and it's various pages. So I just don't want to see, like,
00:50, I want to see multiple different pages. That allows people to kind| to list their products and sell.
00:56, So, sellers should be able to kind| to go and list their products. Actually, let me just call it agents.
01:02, And so, while buyers to browse agents.
01:06, and ultimately check out. So I want to kind| to see both the seller experience and the buyer experience.
01:11, I want to use modern design, maybe with pastel colors, right? So, all you have to do is to kind| to vibe it out, and what you will see is, like, there is, again, just like anything else, I think there are four different modes, the three flash.
01:26, Thinking3 Pro, depending upon when you're looking at it, there will be more models supported here. Redesign, this is pretty cool, we'll come back and take a look at that, where actually you can redesign a particular site and just say, like, hey, redesign it differently.
01:38, How fast. You know, just for a quick one. I'm gonna leave it at 3 flaps, but try it out with different, aspects of it.
01:46, And if you want, you can actually link a website URL or upload an image if you have a preference of the type of design that you like. I'm just gonna leave it at this, and let it go. And while… what it does is it actually designs
02:01, various, various pages and their things, with it. While it is doing it, I want to kick off, another one of these things.
02:10, Just to kind| to show you guys two different designs of what it comes back with. Right, so this time, I'm gonna actually put, instead of a web, I'm gonna choose an app.
02:20, And I'll, I'll do something like, Build me a… app for… putting…
02:33, Actually, let me just kind| 'of choose one of the prompts here. It says, make me an app for people who love skiing in Alps. So I'll just select that, and this time, maybe I'll just use the 3 Pro, with the app, and I'll let it go.
02:46, I'm gonna start another one of them, and in this particular case, I'm gonna take a website that I like.
02:54, which is the notion.show, and I'll say redesign, right? Instead of doing this redesign.
03:03, the website.
03:05, And, The, the landing page.
03:11, Page of far… And, notion.com, I'll just remove the rest of it.
03:21, Make it much… more agentic.
03:25, In nature, where someone Can come and start finding out.
03:36, And start,
03:41, Awful bitch.
03:43, So what I'm saying is, like, hey, in the homepage, this would be when you're gonna come and use it. If you look at it, it just has a lot of, like, it's a pretty long page. So I'm gonna choose the redesign here, and then let it go. While this is doing, let's go back to our first page, which is…
03:59, the design of a marketplace for AI Agent. Let's see what it has come up with.
04:05, So, if I zoom in here, first of all, you can see it has come with multiple different pages, right? Like, it has an AI Agent Marketplace homepage.
04:15, Let's covered the browser AI agent homepage, agent product page, like, what does the product page actually looks like, a list of agent dashboard, and checkout and payments, right? So it has built all of those pages that we talked about.
04:28, What we can also do at this point is, like, if we don't like anything, so for example, I didn't like the purple here, so I can say, can you not use purple?
04:38, as well, at Show Me… Cool.
04:46, Show me other… alternative versions.
04:52, Create another version. Leave this alone.
04:58, Right? I also have a choice that I can actually choose to, create a design system or else and let it go. Right? Like, so at this point, it is able to kind| to, like, just go ahead and, let's see what's going on. Switching back.
05:12, to, design number two. You can see it is still kind| to, like, going about, what would we ask? Like, make me an app for people who love skiing in the Alps, but this time we had asked for an app rather than…
05:24, Our website. So you can see it's still cracking away.
05:28, We'll come back to that, and this is the Notion page that it has created, right? So what you're seeing is, like.
05:37, What we asked is, like, what are you building today?
05:41, And it always provides that information, interestingly. So, what we can do is, actually, you can click on the preview, if you want to.
05:52, and take it to a new page and see, like, what it actually looks like, right? Like, so you're able to kind| to see that. You may or may not like that, so you can make the edits exactly the same way, here.
06:03, Let's go back to the second one. You can see this is an app, so this is more on the app format, and it kind| to uses the buttons and things that it kind| to uses around there. You can easily create variations here.
06:15, And I can just say, create a variation, and what do a number of options? I think I just want to… two. Let's just not give any custom instructions, but we can give custom instructions if you really wanted to.
06:29, And let's see what's happening here. So it still, looks like it's created a new version for us, like, so without using the purple, and it's created a second version.
06:38, But you can see that, it has changed the context, it has changed a lot of the… it has the pricing page and everything else, right? If I go back to,
06:49, the… the other one. I guess it is still working, we'll come back to that. One of the things that you may want to do is actually, when you're ready to kind| to, like, bring it to any other system, like, let's say Lovable or Replit or anything like that.
07:04, You just want to select this, and do a Ctrl-C and CTRL-V into something like Lovable.
07:11, Right, so if I just go here, I can, go ahead and actually paste, these things.
07:19, And, you can see it just pasted one at a time, so you may want to have to paste independently. But what they also have built is, like, they have an export button here.
07:29, And what it says is that if you're using Google AI Studio or anything like that, you can directly just move it there. Jules is, like, OpenAI product. It just kind| to, like, pushes it out right away. You can download it as a zip file or, you know, you can copy it as a clipboard. So if you do the AI Studio.
07:47, You can, as soon as you hit share.
07:51, Actually, sorry, build with AI Studio. What it will do is it has copied all the 5 or 8 images here, so you're able to kind| to, like, give the details directly over here.
08:04, Let's see if the second variation has come up now, or not. So let me, just kind| to quickly look through.
08:13, And, in this particular case, I actually don't see.
08:19, The variations, where are the variations?
08:22, I'm gonna look around just to see if, is it just me who's missing it? Or,
08:33, Or it has, and we'll come back, see what happens. So this time I do see it is trying to generate something at the bottom, which is much better.
08:43, So, you know, expect errors with any of these byproducts, that's just the reality of where we are.
08:50, Right. Looks like it's starting to generate another variation. Again, you can keep both variations, you're able to kind| to share this with folks, but the idea here is, like, if you can actually go ahead and design out these changes, and, like, figure it out.
09:05, And now you can actually see what is working and what is not working before you say it out to the folks. So go ahead and vibe design it, and see what products you want to design.
