Video Title: Building with API (with API key) - Weather app
Duration: 10:14

Transcript:

00:00, Alright, so now I want to actually move on to, building API keys, sorry, products with using API keys, itself, right? So first of all.
00:12, Most… pretty much all the applications that she will integrate with, with a very rare
00:18, Chances are without the API keys, most of them will require an API key. What is an API key? Whenever you connect with somebody else, let's call it the API producer, it could be the Salesforce, it could be the YouTube, Google Maps, your bank, Stripe, anyone else.
00:35, They… they generally…
00:38, authenticate that you are the app, you have the, you know, for billing purposes, for authentication purposes, and everything else, they will generate an API key and give it to you.
00:48, And you, as an app developer, on the left-hand side, you will put in the API key, and with every request, you will send that secret key.
00:57, So that the API producer or the person that you… the teams that you're kind| to integrating with, they know that you are the one. And also, first of all, authenticate and give you the private data.
01:09, but also bill you for it, or rate limit in other things. So, if you want to read about that, there's a link that I've put on for… from Google around what are API keys.
01:18, Some of the simple examples would be, like, building a weather app using API keys stored securely, right? Like, so that would be one. News aggregator would be another one. Build a news dashboard using an authenticated news API.
01:32, You can use that. Currency converter. If you want to, you know, find somebody who provides the exchange rate, so stocks and everything, that could be one other one.
01:42, build a distance calculator using Maps API key, or if you want to send emails, right, like, because if you want to use a send email, like, something like,
01:52, SendGrid or something, you will use the API key here. In this particular case, let's actually just go ahead and do…
02:01, Let us just do the weather app, right? I want to keep it simple, and maybe we will use this,
02:10, You know, maybe we'll use this… Ting?
02:15, from Open Weather Map. And, like, if you go to the Open Weather Map, it has, right there at the home page, it says, get an API key. Let's look at the pricing. This would have some kind| to a free tier. Pay as you go, first thousand API calls per day are free, which is great, good enough for us.
02:33, So let's just say, get the API key, you need to kind| to sign up.
02:37, Here, so I'm just gonna go ahead and create an account. We'll be right back, right after that.
02:44, Okay? So, looks like it, it did, it did that, and let's say…
02:53, Let's see what happens.
02:55, So, if I go to the API keys, it gives me an API key. Typically, this is how alphanumeric, API key will actually look like. Let me just give it a name, test.
03:07, And,
03:09, Alright, so… alright, looks like it created another one of those. So, I'm gonna just keep this for now, and what I wanna do is come back here and ask it to, environment variables that, store this API key
03:27, in the local… browser setting, right? Remember, we don't want to actually store the information.
03:35, On the server, so this is a great example of kind| to using something like that. I'm just going to go back to V0 and kind| to hit that, weather app, which says that, build a weather forecast app, fetch current and 5-day forecast, store API key in the environment variables,
03:52, And do that. And hopefully she'll be able to kind| to learn and…
03:57, figure out… many times you want to provide the documentation for API, right? Like, in this particular case, let's see if they have
04:04, good documentation. Oh, there is… there you go, API docs. So you may want to actually provide these API docs along with it. Actually, let's just go ahead and fix this for you. And here is the API docs. Sometimes you may have to provide that as a PDF or something.
04:23, So, looks like, this is where, while you're building it, it is asking for an API key. So, the way the secrets are managed, right, these are called secrets or environment variables.
04:33, is generally they will ask and store that information either locally on the server or on your browser. So I'm just gonna go ahead and copy this, key, and bring it back here and just paste it here, right? So that way, you should get that, add one environment variable.
04:52, Before it kind kind| to continues.
04:57, Alright, so, it's going ahead and, building out the layout for me, and this is something that you guys should already be very comfortable with, is, like, how do you kind| to build an app? The focus really here is at looking at the secrets.
05:15, Just, finishing up here.
05:18, And let's see…
05:21, please go back and start building at the same time. Actually, you know, I made a mistake, because I have asked it to kind| to give store API key in the environment variable, as was the local browser setting. So in this case, let me kind| to remove this for you guys so that you don't have to experience that.
05:38, But the good news is, like, it is asking me for the API key again. So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna enter an API key and save. And then now, let's see if it actually gives me information. It says the API key is not correct.
05:57, I wonder if there was confusion around,
06:01, what is the API key? So let me just kind| to go ahead and,
06:07, Put that here, and then do a search.
06:11, Okay, if it does not work, this is where you would just kind| to just say, like, the API key is not working.
06:19, Can you check if there is conflict?
06:23, Between, ENV, Local, storage.
06:32, And if so, remove one of them, right? I want to actually… you guys to kind| to see that it's not generally… very rarely will things just work for the first time.
06:44, And I'm glad when opportunity like this come, even though it could be human error, it could be LLM error, I want you to kind| to, like, start seeing patterns in which I actually go about fixing it.
06:58, Oh, pretty much everything will have a console, so take a look at the console, and it may sometimes give you errors of what's going on and what's not going on.
07:07, See, it says, I can see the issue, the code is passing the API key from local storage, the URL query parameter, the API route, but the API route also tries to use the environment variable. It is trying to do both of them, so now let's try to hit the search.
07:21, It says, okay, so I'm gonna just… this is what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna take a screenshot of this and paste it here.
07:28, And say, still error.
07:33, Can you output The right debug information.
07:41, Onto the console.
07:45, To help you debug, easily.
07:50, Right? So, what I said is, like, instead of me debugging it, I really want… I took a screenshot, I pasted it here, and I said, hey, I want you to kind| to output all of these things into the console, if the errors are happening, so that they are able to debug. And you can see, just like I said, pause and get in the previous video.
08:08, It did get a 200, so it looks like the API is responding back properly. There's just something else going on here. Oh, it says invalid API key. I wonder if I can try the next one.
08:22, Here, okay, and see if that works.
08:31, Alright.
08:33, Let me just try, before that, see if it actually works.
08:41, Okay…
08:45, Got it. So, this is an invalid. So, can you try a new key?
08:51, Pop up the secret window.
08:56, So, I want to try a new key, and here's another cool thing, right? To update the secret, you can just say that, hey, it's like.
09:03, I have a new key, can you show me the secret window again, so I can actually provide you that? And,
09:11, So that it should actually provide me the right information.
09:18, Alright, now it's adding the model, for API key, so we can actually see what's going on.
09:27, Right? So, let's try, and it will not work. I'm gonna open this, and try the new API key, and let's do search again. It does not work. So, what I… at this point, what I don't know is if this actually works, or do I have to kind| to, like, activate,
09:47, In some way or form.
09:53, So, anyways, I'm gonna go back and debug this, right? You guys should debug this as well, but maybe see if this is not the right system. Maybe open weather is not the right protocol, right? Like, maybe try out some of the other ones.
10:07, try out an app API key that you're gonna have. So, alright, I'm gonna pause now and go debug at this point.
