Video Title: Taming the Vibe Coding Swings
Duration: 18:20 (Approx)

Transcript:

00:01, Hey guys, so, today I want to talk about…
00:06, taming the vibe coding swings. You know, it's pretty fun to vibe code.
00:12, And it's, relatively straightforward to kind of do it. You guys have built multiple projects by now.
00:19, But here's the challenge, right? Like…
00:21, Many times, when you build VIP coding.
00:26, It's the, you know, it's very fragile.
00:30, And, how do you kind of, like, really continue to kind of maintain that? There is a blog also that I've written around this, so if you have, you know, if you're interested in kind of reading more about that, kind of go look at it.
00:41, But here's the thing.
00:44, In vibe coding, it's not just about the syntax anymore, it's about the feel of the code generated by AI, and we already know that, that's what VIP coding is.
00:55, And, while it's very intuitive and fast, but we have to be aware that great VIP code can hide structural instability, right? Because, as you're kind of building it, you may see that it may break in some strange way, and whatnot.
01:13, Typically what I think about… the way I can explain white code is almost like looking at a Jenga fact.
01:20, Right? If you have a Jenga tower, it may look pretty stable, it kind of looks like it's standing up, but you try to kind of move around a couple of pieces here and there, the whole thing kind of falls apart. And this is something that, if you have not already experienced, you will experience in your system.
01:35, Where the entire system's just gonna come crashing down, based on a small little thing, that you have worked.
01:42, So… Why does it fall apart? Well, the thing is, models are pretty non-deterministic.
01:51, And, as you could have seen, like, even between the two people, two prompts that two people make, the outputs are not always the same. So they, even though the model thinks that it should be doing something, it does not.
02:04, There are a lot of hidden dependencies, so it may be, sometimes all the code, because as the code becomes larger, all the code cannot be pushed in, and they don't to save tokens.
02:15, Into the system.
02:17, And then there is a ripple effect, right? And one module breaking can really kind of break down some of the other modules along the way.
02:27, So, what I say is watch out for the invisible glue. Code works now, because the chat history holds the context. If you start a new session, it completely breaks, because, you know, if you have… for example, if you are told.
02:41, that, can you build me an Uber-like app?
02:46, for tools, lending tools. And all of a sudden, it understands that maybe you meant, like, a marketplace has to be built, but what is Uber like? Can I call it on-demand and the tools will come to my home? Do I have to go pick it up? And it inferred a lot of things through the implicit context when you say Uber-like app.
03:06, And somewhere along the way, you just kind of go and say, well, maybe I wanna make it an Airbnb-like app, and now it has to switch contexts, and like, in Airbnb, you really go to Airbnb rather than the tools coming to you. In the Uber, the expectation is the tool comes to you. In Airbnb, the expectation is that you go to the Airbnb.
03:25, Right? And those kind of changes, like, sometimes we don't think about while we are prompting, but it can really make a difference in terms of what is the implicit context that it has.
03:35, And it's a hallucinated library, right? The wife feels right, but the input does not exist. Sometimes it kind of makes up. If you say that, go look for tools.
03:45, On the web, it can make up API URLs, it can make up the data that it is pulling up, and all of a sudden, you may think that you're actually working with the real data, you may be working with made-up data.
03:56, And guess what?
03:58, Models, just like humans, models have huge mute swings.
04:03, Right? It is unpredictable.
04:06, One day it's a genius engineer, the next day it's the confused intern, right? Like, you start with something, it's like, ask, like, oh my god, this built such a good website in one prompt.
04:16, And next thing you say is, like, can you change the logo to… from blue to red? And it can't do it. It just kind of gives up. It looks like,
04:23, This thing. So, which is the trap, right? Getting comfortable with the fact that the genius mode
04:31, And forgetting to guard against the confused mode, right? Like, so, what happens is we start to think about…
04:38, How genius it is, but we don't guard ourselves against this confusion.
04:45, So, it looks like, you've been learning the wrong skills. Is there a way to kind of improve this?
04:53, Well, looks like there is. So here's some advice that I have for you.
04:57, Some of the best practices is…
04:59, control the code, right? Like, anchor the prompts, don't just ask, specify constraints, right? Like, so what do you want to do is, when you're prompting.
05:09, One of the things that you wanna do is actually prompt
05:14, the model to have the creative freedom, but you want to be very specific around what you want to achieve. Let me give you an example. Early on, you may want to give model a lot of freedom around, like, build an Uber-like.
05:28, But you want to maybe also specify that I want to use a tools API from Home Depot. You must look for tools from Home Depot and kind of use that. And that specificity really allows the model to ground.
05:40, Right? Or you may want to say you must use JavaScript rather than Python. You may see that you might use, like, CRM as HubSpot rather than something else. So the specificity really allows it, to understand and kind of stay, grounded.
05:56, you want to modularize as much as possible, right? Break that Jenga tower into smaller, independent mini-towers, right? So that if it… even if it collapses, you just have to kind of rebuild that one piece.
06:07, Modularized does not mean that you build separate projects, just try to put them in specific folders. Maybe you can say, here's a folder for billing, here's a folder for something else.
06:18, You know, maybe reporting, here's a folder for user management, here's a folder for memory management.
06:25, And then you… when you say the prompts, you may say, it's like, only work on this folder. And as you start to kind of, like, if your project is small, don't worry about these things, it's just, like, just a personal landing page, you don't have to worry. But as the project starts to become larger, this is something that you need to worry about a lot.
06:44, Right? I would say review rigorously, right? You are the architect, and you are the architect for this. Just like when you build a home.
06:55, And you may have contractors working on the roof, on the floor, plumbing, and everything else.
07:01, They are doing the job, but you are still responsible for kind of putting everything together, you are responsible for going to each of them and kind of validating. You're overseeing if the flooring is okay, are they doing the right thing on the plumbing, are they kind of patching it up properly? You cannot take the supervision out of building out for the VIP code.
07:21, This is where I would also say, even though VIP coding is mostly intuition, a stable vibe coding is mostly engineering. So, to tame the swings, you must treat vibe coding
07:33, as the same as the traditional engineering. And that's why a lot of the product managers are also recommended, we want to especially kind of scale up to larger models, or sorry, larger projects. You want to start thinking about traditional engineering.
07:47, You should also document the vibe.
07:50, What it means is that save your prompts as code.
07:53, So that they are now part of the source control, right? Like, so, what does it mean? So, if I go to, for example, lovable.dev, and I take up,
08:04, Take up one of the,
08:10, So, hold on, let me just kind of go here. And if I take up one of the, let's say, meeting prism, which was for one of the projects that we worked on, it allows you to kind of take a transcript of a meeting and kind of get some intelligence. I can literally say.
08:29, to help me… Rebuild.
08:35, this project.
08:38, Give me the exact… Spec… MD I can use, and… Printed here as well.
08:47, Like, what am I doing here? I'm doing here two things. Number one is…
08:53, First of all, if you're not familiar with .md file, it is markdown files, and this is the most common type of file that models love to kind of use. They have reach text capability while just using text file in this case.
09:08, So, what happens is, when you say to build this out, it can spit out what it has actually built, or it may not be accurate, but it kind of gives you a broader understanding.
09:20, And you want to start saving this prompt as code, so that you can version control and see what are the things that you added. And maybe you start to add, like, spec 1, spec 2, spec 3, which is, it says that.
09:32, this is the version 1, this is not the version 2. You're not incrementally, you're just saying that, what is the next prompt that I want to do? So, almost like feature request. This is where, many times people can use, like, your Jira code.
09:43, to say, this is the feature I want to build, and then you say, go build this next feature, and it has all the details around what you want. So you don't want to just prompt directly, but you want to use more of a structured approach there.
09:57, So the right thing to do is to know how to control the vibe code, right? Like, that's the… and which is, you have to kind of master the swings, in this particular case.
10:07, Oh.
10:11, So, let me just kind of wait a sec here for this to… let's see if it has actually generated the code. If I go back to the code here, I should see, like, a spec.md.
10:25, Here, somewhere.
10:31, This is gonna search for it.
10:36, Oh, here's, okay.
10:39, Where is the spectrum leak?
10:47, It says, here's the full, spec…
10:52, covers the data monitor. You can use it as you build the project from scratch.
10:57, Let me just kind of try to look for it again.
11:03, Maybe just my eyes are not seeing it.
11:09, It didn't save the spec as a file before, so it looks like it's saving it now.
11:15, Boom.
11:19, Right? I'll come back as soon as it's done.
11:22, Right? So… it did… so let me search for the file here. Okay, now you see, you can see the spec.md. And, if I look at the spec.md, it basically has,
11:38, You know, it has the overview of, like, what the app is, it has that tech stack, it has that design system, like, what colors it has used, what's the typography, animation.
11:48, And so you can actually store, and what are the components? Like, there's a meeting sidebar, there's a upload drop zone, and others. There's so many… it has the folder structure, and pretty much everything is there.
11:59, This is where you may want to actually differentiate from this. It's like, maybe you don't want the whole thing as a spec, like, you don't want it to be that concrete. You just want to say, it's like, hey.
12:09, I wanna… just a feature-level spec. I don't want, like, a technology-level spec, so you decide what you want. But definitely, document the prompts.
12:21, Okay, some tips for, some action plan. I'll give you, like, 5 steps, to step, to stop it from wobbling.
12:28, Number one, action number one. Build brick by brick, right? So, instead of building the whole app at once.
12:36, that's shaky as a tower of a Jenga, right? Like, use atomic prompts, try to kind of get one thing at a time, like the base layer, and then can move to the next layer, and then move to the next layer.
12:46, Ask for one function at a time, verify it works. It's a verification that matters. Unless you're a larger team, you may not be able to kind of have the evals. And if you don't have the evals, how do you test it? How do you continuously validate that you're not breaking something? So, build big by way.
13:01, Action number two, wipe the slate clean, right? Like, the danger is the long, long chat sessions accumulate. What happens is,
13:11, if I look for anthropic, context lengths…
13:18, There's this article, on context links, and what Anthropic, kind of shows in the diagram over here.
13:26, is, you know, as you kind of chat on ChatGPT or any other place.
13:32, or even the builder on Replit and others.
13:35, Every time you type something, it's called a turn, and so from turn to turn, you will have input, message and output messages. In the next turn, you kind of, like, again have the input and output, so turn over turn, the size of the context size of the chat is kind of increasing.
13:52, And at some point, in this case, it says 200K, I think the new models have a million context window, or whatever it is. At some point, you will run out of the context length.
14:03, And then, the models have to kind of figure it out, is like, shall we just throw the old
14:08, Chat.
14:09, Or should we just compress it? And that results in what we call is a context rot, right? So take a look at that if you're interested. But context rot can happen, and if the context rot happens, you'll… it's gonna hallucinate.
14:23, And this is where what you want to do is, like, sometimes you want to just start a new thread, and especially possible on things like cursor and anti-gravity and others. Not so much possible into things like AI Studio.
14:35, And some of the web stuff. But whenever you have a choice, you want to start a new thread to kind of, like, aggressively manage the hyen for the context window.
14:48, The third is… action is what I call the little-ish, right? Well, the challenge with Vip coding is, VIP coding, a lot of times it looks right, but it isn't. It kind of, like, behaves the same way, the chat looks the same, interface looks the same.
15:04, You can trust it, but make sure that you verify what you're doing.
15:08, Right? You may want to do things like, use strict linter and, type checker. So, you may say that every time you check in code, you want to apply linting into the process, and you can just say that. It's like, use ESLint, or please do a lint check on that.
15:25, Automate a lot of these things through git check-in and checkout when you can. Don't let good vibes bypass the syntax error. And this is where I have my article,
15:36, around, the vibes, taming the vibes. If you go to Virout.substack, TamingTheSwingers,
15:45, why… one of the things that I've talked about is, like, how…
15:48, You can actually use, things like, quality checklists, right? So you can have a security checklist, like, every time you run code, you can run security and say, like, is there any vulnerability in the code?
16:00, Is there… is it SEO-friendly or not? Is it accessibility-friendly or not? Is it performance-friendly or not? You can do it for privacy, you can do a bunch of things, and I'm giving examples of how you can do that. So definitely, look at that.
16:13, Right?
16:14, Action number 4 is save the vibe, right? We talked about prompting a few slides ago.
16:21, But as we kind of go through so many different prompts and others, version control your prompts. It's important. Use Git when possible. Pretty much all of these products, they're automatically version control for you, so that's great. But if you start to kind of move to a more advanced arena, you want to do that.
16:39, And lastly, action number 5 is be the human compiler.
16:44, You are no longer the writer of the code, you are mostly overseeing and editing.
16:50, But you wanna read every line of…
16:53, prompt, right? Not the code, but prompt. And be sure that what prompts you're putting in is the spec that you're comfortable with. Don't just copy-paste blindly. The right way to kind of think about it is, like, assume that the junior, the AI is a junior developer.
17:10, Who can… who… who's good at coding, maybe?
17:15, But it can lie, not because it wants to lie, but it can lie confidently because it does not understand as much. And that's where the confidence comes in, right? Like, it's not meant to be like the junior developers are gonna lie.
17:27, But the fact that it does not understand the implications for a lot of the things. So you as a senior guy, or if you're going back to the housing… house example, right? If you have a house.
17:37, That you're trying to build.
17:39, You can trust that the plumber is gonna do the right thing, the roofer is gonna do the right thing, the flooring guy is gonna do the right thing, but you have to kind of, like, validate everything. It's like, is this… are they really doing the right thing?
17:51, And, you know, you are the safety net, so, you know, if something goes wrong, you should be the one kind of looking out for it.
17:59, So, in summary, what I would say is, make your prompts atomic, small, and just kind of build on that.
18:06, Wipe the context, or like, so that, you know, if you are switching between, different things, that's true. And review, read it, don't distrust it, right? Like, so those are the things.
18:20, Well, good luck, keep building, and hopefully this gives you some of the tricks to vibe code even better.
