Video Title: What is Vibe Coding?
Duration: 09:52

Transcript:

00:01, Hey, everyone, welcome. Today, I want to talk, give a quick intro on VIP coding for product managers. It can also be used for others, by others as well, right?
00:12, The key thing is kind| to moving from
00:16, coding by intent, and not by syntax, right? Like, when we are building something, You really are…
00:23, Try to build, and you have an intent in mind, and vibecoding really allows us to kind| to code by in-text, intent rather than success. By syntax.
00:34, So, a little bit of a history. The VIP coding term came, I believe in February 2025, by Andres Karpathi. He's, one of the lead persons to kind| to follow agent ecositive AI overall, and he coined the term VIP coding in a tweet, where he said.
00:53, We mostly just write English now, and the AI writes the code, and he kind| to displays, like, being one of the top engineers, he was, like, the head of Tesla, as well as he was a lead researcher in OpenAI. Coming from him, everybody paid attention, right? And he says, like, why… how does he do that? And he was really early on.
01:11, And what it really means, what vibecoding actually means, is that you're building Code by review.
01:20, And it is a sift from writing to reviewing, right? You're not writing the code, but you're reviewing, and you're asking maybe some kind| to an editing as well. Like, we are asking the agents to edit itself.
01:32, What it means is that you write the spec, you kind| to define what you want.
01:36, And then AI writes the logic, right? It can be in Python, JavaScript, there are a bunch of different languages that can be used. I think it just so happens that TypeScript and JavaScript and Pythons are the most common, but they are capable of doing it in pretty much any language.
01:53, You run it, and check.
01:56, And what you check for is, does it vibe? Does it kind| to, like, work me? Is this what I wanted, right? Like, that… you're just vibing with the chorus, like, it's, give me…
02:04, you can say, it's like, give me a CRM for my small business which does this. This is kind| to vibing, you're not even defining the spec as much, you're kind| to, like, checking out for a much broader thing. And if it looks like, it feels right.
02:16, It is right.
02:18, So…
02:19, In the VIP coding, there's a loop, right? The new compile cycle, which basically means the old ways you write the code.
02:27, And then you kind| to go fix the syntax errors, and you run, and you kind| to ship the code.
02:31, The vibe way is a little bit different, right? In the vibe way, you are really just kind| to going after the prompt, you're just describing the behaviors, like, what do you want? And then it generates the code.
02:43, Which is written by AI, and then you do a wipe check, and then you iterate. Iterating is what is an important piece, like, you don't want to build out the whole thing at one go.
02:54, you want to run a vibe check, see if it works, and then iterate a little bit more. That's the most interesting part, the iteration, but it's also the most challenging part. We'll talk about that throughout the chapters.
03:09, So… And what I suggest is level one is you start with a toy app, right, where everybody starts.
03:17, Which is basically things like calculators, to-do lists, it's simple to-do, landing pages, simple games, snake games.
03:24, And,
03:26, So the tools that you can use is, like, lovable.com, V0Replett, and it's instant gamification and gratification. You see the results in seconds, rather than, like, having to check the code. You see the result first, if you like it, then you go back and check if at all.
03:42, And if it works, you've built the software.
03:46, But what I've also seen is, on the Level 1, a lot of people will hit the wall, especially the… if you're a product manager, engineer.
03:55, The simple stops to work at some point, right? Pyaps are fun, but they, you know, they, they lack certain things, like authentication, databases, payments, complexity, stability, reliability, and all of those things.
04:10, This is where you bring in the Level 2 of the vibe coding, which is the real engineering, right? Like, what we call is, like, vibe engineering. You move away from the toy app providers, which they're also catching up, they're trying to kind| to go further with you.
04:24, the no-code, the lovables, the replits of the world. But you really want to start switching to, like, cursor, anti-gravity. For now, my, you know, usage is mostly on anti-gravity, but it kind| to changes every month based on who's providing what.
04:42, And this is where…
04:43, tools like Cursor and others really shine. You're not just building the UI, you are architecting the backend, you're trying to kind| to figure out, you're going much more detailed into that.
04:54, So if I have to look at the Vibe, stack.
04:57, it becomes, like, cursor, for the, for the engineering or the cloud core, or anti-gravity, right? These are from different vendors. Cursor is independent, cloud code is,
05:09, more off from Anthropic, Anti-Gravity's from Google. Codex just came out, from OpenAI, so those are, the things that it's gonna continue to have.
05:20, And what does it take?
05:21, Right? Well, here's to… to VIP code, I think clarity is the most important part, right? Like, if AI is doing all the work.
05:30, What you owe to AI is clarity in the way you want to build it, what you want to build. And sometimes I even say that the most important thing that you can do as a product manager or builder today is know what you don't want to build.
05:44, You want to bring your system thinking, you need to visualize how the pieces fit together, because AI can lose context and kind| to build things in silos.
05:53, And you want to be able to… pretty good debugger, evaluator, builder, tester, you can fix the syntax, but have you fixed the core issue of it? How do you kind| to control?
06:06, But I do think that PMs are just a natural in doing that. PMs already think in requirements and user stories. White coding is essential.
06:16, Right, this is, you know, UR…
06:19, What you're doing is, like, before you go to your designers, before you go to engineers, you can vibe code and think about a concept and see what's working and what's not working.
06:28, And you're going to your designers and engineers much more validated, right? You don't have to always think about shipping the code, right? Like, VIP coding is not just for shipping the code. It is also for understanding going to your users, seeing what's working and what's not working.
06:42, you are closer to the creation of the process, and then you are much more involved, right? You're able to kind| to ideate and say, like, I'm not liking the tone of it. Can you go into, like, a different approach? Can you think of this from a privacy perspective?
06:57, So, while you're starting to write code, my view to you is to change your approach to start slow. Even though it feels like you want to do a lot, and you can do a lot.
07:07, But you will fail a lot, and the challenge is, I'm completely okay with failing.
07:13, But the challenge is, if you boil the ocean, you're not gonna be able to ship anything. You're not gonna be able to take advantage of it.
07:20, Okay? So, start with that one feature, verify that one single component.
07:25, And then expand into the next model, right? Starting slow, in this case, is really slow and steady will win the race.
07:33, And once you have done that, once you have comfort around, like, starting slow, and you've figured out how the VIP coding works.
07:40, then you can absolutely go deeper. Go deeper technically, go deeper from the product perspective, kind| to think about, should I refactor this? How do I debug it? Can I explain it? Can I control the way it's going? How should I go into the performance?
07:55, I also feel… That the future is really for product engineers.
08:01, Right? Like, product engineers are… the line between PM and engineering is blurring. What it means is more product folks will be doing engineering, and more engineering folks will be capable of doing the product work.
08:12, We are entering into the new era of product managers can prototype.
08:15, Build internal tools for efficiency, and ship features, small little things if your engineers don't have time.
08:23, But some of the engineers are going to be good at doing that, so they will move and kind| to start taking more ownership on the product side, more of the product guys can do both, and many times they're just kind| to building this to brainstorm with each other.
08:37, So, in terms of the key takeaway, though, right, again, vibe coding is really about vibing it out and see what works and what does not.
08:45, Just know that English is the new code. At some point, you're going to stop looking at the code, because you trust your models to kind| to do better, and every month, if not every week, your models are getting better.
08:56, But I would say.
08:57, learn the ability to articulate the requirement. Like, the more clear you become your requirement, the better your outputs are gonna be. If you're just kind| to, like, being vague in the way you kind| to ask for requirements, it's not gonna work.
09:10, Start small, right? Iterate fast, verify often, don't trust the AI.
09:15, for everything, especially not now. Over time, as things get better, maybe you can trust it for this, but then the layer of abstractions are gonna go even higher.
09:25, And, move to the Pro Tours tools as soon as you can, right? Move beyond…
09:32, the lovables of the world, like, as soon as you get comfortable with the cursors and the entire gravity of the world, you will see a step change in how fast and useful it is. But don't let that bother you to kind| to, like, learning. In this course, we're going to focus a lot on, like, using the browser-based, but go deeper.
09:49, Well, thank you, and I'll see you in the Vibe world.
