Video Title: Domain name hosting on Cloudflare (from godaddy)
Duration: 04:38

Transcript:

00:01, Hey, folks. So today I want to talk about how to use your domain, name and host, or deploy your products onto the domain name. In this particular case, I'm actually using roomtas.com as the domain name.
00:14, I've already registered that many, many years ago, like over a decade ago, I guess maybe even 2 at Godaddy. So I'm not going to move that. But if you're starting a new domain yourself, you can use Godaddy or Cloudflare
00:28, today. What we're going to do is actually, look at. How do you register the domain at Godaddy? Once you have registered the domain at Godaddy or Cloudflare, how are you going to go about setting the in such a way that cloudflare becomes the Dns provider just easier for me to kind| to work on cloudflare. And then from there I will log onto my V 0 account and others and start pointing to things that I work on
00:52, onto the V 0 account. So this particular case you can see that I already have a domain name, and I'm going to use cloudflare to manage this thing. They just have a very good tools. Cloudflare has a lot| to tools to around spam and like much easier domain configuration and everything else. And it's so much easier for me to kind| to do it that way. So 1st thing what I'm going to do is cloudflare. I'm going to actually hit login and select, just create a new domain.
01:20, So when I say, create a new domain, I can put here roomtas.com as this thing, and because I'm already have a domain with Godaddy. I'm going to use a quick scan. If I wasn't doing this I would actually go ahead and register the domain here. Then I didn't have to actually do that, and once you hit
01:41, continue, I already have it in Cloudflare. So that's why it is not allowing me. So let me kind| to go back and show you what it looks like. It has actually detected bunch| to the domains for me. So let me just show you kind| to shows that, hey? I already have all| to these domains available.
02:00, and I'm going to accept that as is what it. What I'm saying is like, hey? Whatever existing settings are there from email and everything else I want to continue to use that you guys will probably see completely blanked out here.
02:12, And once I do that it provides me something called the name server. So now this is what's happening. Godaddy is actually the registrar. So whenever somebody types.com or your domain.com. It goes to Godaddy and says like, Hey, where should I send this site to?
02:31, At this point Godaddy will look at something called name servers, and it said, What should I use? I already have it configured with one and one. This was a very old thing that I'm kind| to just trying to bring back up.
02:45, You have 2 choices. You can say it's like, Hey, I just want to use Godaddy's name, server, in which case Godaddy also provides a lot| to this functionality there. But in our case we want to use cloudflare. So I'm just going to say I want to use cloudflare as the name server. Now you can see one, and one was there. So I'm going to remove this, too.
03:02, and bring the name server that Cloudflare has actually provided. So if I go back here, it has provided 2 domain name servers. So one is Iris. Let me bring that back here
03:13, and put it in here, and another receipt. So I'm just going to come back here and add that. So now what this tells Godaddy is like, hey, Godaddy! Anybody, anytime anybody is asking for either email or a domain loading a website. Please point them to this name server. It says that by continuing, you're agreeing to kind| to like their
03:37, consenting to send it there. It is successful still, says one, and one. So just let me just kind| to hit refresh, because I think that should bring that back up. Let's go to the domain here, and you can see this is existing. So now, when I come back here.
03:51, what it has done is like it's told, telling me to kind| to like, do this kind| to things, or agree to this, and let me hit, continue.
04:01, and it may take some time to actually propagate. So I can actually ask to check the name server. Now, please, is checking the names| to Com. Please a few hours for an update. So I guess at this point it would be important for me to just kind| to go back and wait.
04:19, But let me just try to refresh just in case sometimes these things are pretty quick, and a lot| to these things actually does not happen when you just register from the same place, either. Use cloudflare for registering your domain as well. A lot| to times people actually like to transfer their domain here.
04:38, So at this point we'll come back later and take a look, as once the domain is activated in Cloudflare, we'll take it up from the next video. Thank you.
