Video Title: Vibe coding with Lovable, Build your Interview Tracker Kanban
Duration: 11:14

Transcript:

00:00, Hey everyone, welcome back. So today, we're gonna look at, levelable.dev. We're going through, white coding tools, and just kind| to seeing. Go back to the V0 app, if you have not seen it, we went through a lot| to details around what kind| to things, so we're gonna kind| to rush through this one.
00:18, Because a lot| to the concepts remain the same. When you go to lovable.dev, once you have signed up, hopefully, you should be able to kind| to just see… see the same prompt. And let's try to kind| to build something completely different here.
00:32, I would like to… build a… A simple Kanban?
00:42, style app.
00:43, No database.
00:48, Use, local storage.
00:53, To help me track my… Interview.
00:59, interviews.
01:01, with different… Company, give stages.
01:06, And ways to add… of progress.
01:12, So, while this is kind| to going on, what I'm trying to build is, I want to build, like, Kanban is, is a particular type| to,
01:22, Slide, most| to you should be familiar with it, but just to kind| to turned out show you.
01:26, If you've ever seen, like, a drag-and-drop kind| to a thing, because if you see this image over here, it says a backlog doing review done. Trilio and others really made it popular, but it's very common with post-its and everything else. And what if you want to track, like, a way, to track your interview preparation, and can we do that?
01:46, Some| to the things that you have to notice is, like, I asked you to kind| to use no database and local storage, because I wanted to kind| to just focus simple on the tool.
01:54, And what it means is that I want you to kind| to store, because as you add your jobs or any other things that you're kind| to tracking, it stays in the browser. It can be a privacy feature as well, but it also just keeps the simplification right now, and you guys will learn about database and everything else as we get there.
02:10, But for now, I wanted to kind| to just focus on the storage, right? Like, we want to use the local storage and kind| to build a Kanma. With that, it actually should, just kind| to go ahead and do it. Let's just wait for it to kind| to complete.
02:25, A few things while it is doing it. On the bottom left, you can see this is the chatbot. You can see, different things, it's like, you know, if there is, ways to kind| to attach different attachments and whatnot.
02:39, It also has something called visual edits, we'll come back to that. But it also… a lot| to them, they provide this voice input, right? Like, what it means is that instead| to…
02:47, actually typing it in. If you wanted to kind| to just include as a voice, so if I can just, have to kind| to say, something like, Hey, lovable, I wanted to see if you can change the color codes to more red.
03:02, I'm gonna pause this.
03:07, So, what it does is, like, here you can see that,
03:15, it is able to kind| to get to, hell-level, it's just a typing thing, so it's not a fancy thing. You can use, like, a local system or whatever, to kind| to do that as well. On the top right, you can see that there is a way to kind| to sync this to the GitHub.
03:32, There is a way to kind| to publish it. When we are ready, we kind| to get there. There's a preview, and of course, there is, there is code, right? Like, code is here, you can see. It has created so many different files. Like, it has created a fab icon, it has created a placeholder, robots.
03:47, components, and all| to those files can be seen here. There's an analytics if, like, if you want to see, once you have published it, you can come back and see what's going on. And,
03:58, This is, cloud is just a way for it to kind| to, like, it… they're starting to add more features. Louvable is starting to add more features, where it says, like, hey, if you need database, which you're not using right now, storage, or authentication, or any other thing.
04:14, Or you want to add, like, an AI-based engine where you can actually use that to kind| to, like, call OpenAI, or Claude, or Gemini, or something.
04:23, instead| to going and writing all| to these things yourself, Levable can enable that, right? And if you enable the cloud, you will do that. I'm not gonna do that right now, but we may do that in the future. Some| to the other things that you will also find is if you go to the settings.
04:43, There is an option| to, like, hide livable badge.
04:47, Because what happens, let me not hide this right now, but without that, it shows that powered by Lovable. If you put that on, it just kind| to removes that. So, let's just see if the project actually loaded.
04:59, And, once it has loaded, we will kinda go about doing that. Okay, awesome, it has done something. Let's see if it actually works. So, I'm just gonna say…
05:09, add interview, and I'm just gonna… okay, it's, for example, I can say I'm interviewing at Amazon.
05:17, Right, and, as a product manager, salary range, from, let's just say, $1 million. Location is,
05:27, San Francisco.
05:30, I've just applied, and which is the date, and notes is nothing. So you can see that it has, gone into, like, the applied, and I should be able to, hopefully.
05:40, Pull it, or…
05:42, Why does it not let me pull? Ideally, it should let me just pull into the next one.
05:48, Oh, there is a move icon here, okay? So, when I go to the move, if I get to the phone screen, I can track it here. So, this is a very simple app that you can build. It stays completely private locally over here, and you're able to kind| to just track it, an interview tracker built right in.
06:07, As you kind| to make progress, you can go to technical, you can actually build out more. If you want to kind| to change this, you can say it's like.
06:14, I also… Want to add stages.
06:18, Which says certain things, like, stages, for example,
06:28, For, rejected.
06:31, And, offer received.
06:40, So, for something like that, I can just build that out and put it here. The good news is, like, if you… if I make it happen, this stays completely private to me, because the database never gets exposed. Somebody else, when they kind| to hit publish or do anything else, when they're gonna go, they will see an empty site.
06:59, Because the database is used on the local browser. I don't recommend that, like, you should at least password protect it.
07:05, But let's also see what's going on with the publish, right? Like, so if you hit publish here, who can see it is important. Like, if it's a business account, you can say, it's like, hey, only my customer, company, sorry, people within the company are able to see it, or anybody on the web. In this case, I'm just gonna say anybody on the web.
07:23, And, you can enter a URL here. It's like, job tracker…
07:30, 101.lavable.app, and I just can hit save.
07:35, That way, okay, it got that, and then I'm just gonna hit publish, right? Doing the publish actually goes through a bunch| to build stages and everything else, finds the server, deploys the code.
07:47, In case when you need a database and stuff like that, that will also be there. So we are kind| to, like, building it out and sending it out, right? It also has the same version control system, so you should be able to kind| to see, or you can open it as a preview tab.
08:04, Where you can see that preview Job Tracker 101, it is showing currently… and you can see that the data actually didn't save, because the URL over here was different, pre-launch versus here. And if I go to different places, it will not show that.
08:18, And on the bottom right, you can see Edit with Lovable. It kind| to shows that by default. I generally don't like that, so what I go is, like, I will just go here, and go to the settings.
08:29, And I'll check that box which says that hide the lovable badge. I'm not sure if I have to republish to kind| to get out| to it, but let's just try to refresh and see if that works.
08:40, bigger. I didn't even have to kind| to, like, republish it, and now it's able to kind| to do that. We'll talk about custom,
08:49, custom domains and stuff later. But again, go back to the code, you can see all the codes are there, robot text, everything else. It generated a bunch| to files, basically, for you, which, you should be kind| to comfortable with, but, you can see different things.
09:08, One| to the other interesting pieces that Lovable has, which, you know, some| to the tools has and they don't, is what we call is the visual edit piece. So you can actually, if instead| to kind| to giving a prompt saying that make it red, or, like, change the colors, or anything else.
09:23, I can actually choose the visual edit, And I can go here.
09:28, And actually, let's just say I'm gonna select… The design| to, Not this.
09:38, Let me see…
09:40, So, okay, once the design is there, if I go here, you can see each| to the aspects is there. So here, maybe I can just select this.
09:48, And I can say… either I can specifically choose as, like, hey, what should I do? Should I change the background color for this? So maybe that, you know, the salary range, maybe background color should be something else, like, maybe this is what I want.
10:06, R…
10:07, You know, and I can save this. So this allows me some kind| to a control, of course, that came out not looking that great, but at least you know that you are able to kind| to do that, and if I remove the visual edit, it kind| to goes back to our, old aspect| to it. Alright, I'm going to refresh the code.
10:25, Just to see what's going on. But at this point, we're gonna be just editing the software, and you can see it has added a few other columns, like offer received, accepted, rejected, right, which is all there. So now, there you go, your own interview tracker. I hope you guys build it and start to use it, and looks like… look, it actually figured out that maybe it's smarter for me to just, instead| to
10:47, Changing the code every time.
10:49, I figured out that I… maybe it's a better thing that I can, add a stage where it says that, let's say I say consideration.
11:01, And let's make it, blues.
11:05, And if I add a stage, it just adds it, dynamically, which is great. And then…
11:14, it's not, there's a typo in the spelling, please pardon that, but it lets me change some| to that, and… but she can say, like, hey, can I actually move around those things a little bit more? Like, can I move what is left, what is right? So you can keep enhancing that. So there you go, that's lovable. Thank you so much.
