Video Title: Vibe codng tools using Googel AI Studio; Bulding a social post generator
Duration: 15:02

Transcript:

00:01, Hey guys, welcome back. So, today I want to look at Google AI Studio. This is actually one of the very powerful tools that is available to you. This is powered by Google. They have a pretty good
00:19, Token availability, and sometimes they let you kind| to build a lot, so you don't run out of tokens as much, of course.
00:24, Having deep pocket here helps.
00:27, With Google. And, one of the things that you… so, to access this, go to Google AIstudio.google.com, or just search for AI Studio.google. You have a very similar kind| to deal here. You can actually look at some| to the examples that they have, for example, what are some| to the things people have built.
00:46, And you're able to just kind| to see and browse, and you can say it's like, you know, what they have done.
00:51, And if you like it, you can just copy this to start with, right? You can just start to kind| to publish this automatically as we kind| to go there. But the real thing that we are interested in is we are interested in building products here. So, you can see that they support multiple models.
01:09, Of course, it's the default is the Gemini 3 Flash Preview, Pro Preview, and depending on when you're looking at it, these models may actually change. The interface would quite, can change significantly. I like to use, Gemini 3 Pro.
01:24, Because it's super, good to do. It can also, I can just say, I'm feeling lucky, and let's see what it does. This is,
01:36, This is something that it will just kind| to prepare, and just, you know, it allows you to kind| to build a sample project. In this particular case, it's building an AI interior design consultant, build an interactive room makeover app.
01:48, A user uploads a photo| to their current space, and the app offers a carousel| to reimagined styles. Mid-century, modern, Scandinavian, generated by AI template, a compare slider, and let's use a drag between the original photos and stuff like that.
02:03, I'm just gonna copy this, and I'm gonna… let's see, what does it build, what other things can it build. So, okay, I'm just gonna say…
02:13, Alright, this is much better, I think much more related. It says, create a cross-platform social media content generator. User input an idea, the app asks for the desired tone, professional, witty, urgent, and simultaneously generate drafted posts tailored for LinkedIn.
02:29, Twitter and Instagram, along with a unique image tailored for each platform optimal select ratio. And what you can see is…
02:36, It has automatically inserted here the generate image with Nano Banana Pro, Gemini Intelligence, it's actually using LLM in the product and tool, so we're getting a little bit ahead| to ourselves, but it's good, maybe. And controlled image aspect ratio, right? So, with this, I'm just gonna go ahead and hit Build.
02:54, And a very similar kind| to pattern that we have been seeing everywhere else. On the left-hand side is your chat interface, which is where, you know, that becomes the central place for you to do everything.
03:06, You have the preview board, as well as the code. You can see that some| to the code have started to just… just about to be kind| to, like, inserted here. You can save the app, you can download the app, which is… pretty much all| to them also support that, if we have not discussed it.
03:24, which is, you know, can you download it? It allows you to kind| to push it to GitHub.
03:29, As well as it allows you to kind| to deploy the app, because, you know, for you to be able to actually share this to somebody else, you must deploy it, and you can share the app as a builder that you have.
03:40, And, we'll come back to what API key is there.
03:45, Alright, so let's go back to the code. You can see that now there's so much more code, starting to kind| to build. You can actually see real time what it is writing and what's going on here. So let's, let's give it a minute or two and come back, but this is, this is a powerful little tool.
04:04, Oh, if you look, there's a setting over here. It allows you to kind| to just choose different things, like, you know, do you want text wrapping? It's just an editor setting.
04:14, in most cases, pretty much never you should be looking at the code unless you get curious and, like, you have a specific aspect| to it. But, you should stay with the preview mode.
04:25, Where the device will load. Oh, this also has, the switcher, right? Like, the… you can look at the desktop mode or anything else. One interesting thing is, they have pretty… a lot| to agentic aspect built in, so if it actually
04:41, finds out errors, it automatically detects it and tries to kind| to fix it, as you can see right now it's doing. It is analyzing one error, and then based on that, it is actually trying to kind| to fix it.
04:52, The console is available at the bottom, so you can see that while it was trying to render that, it caught the uncaught syntax that the request mode app does not provide an export name by default.
05:03, Right? So, this is the difference between a good agentic vibe coder versus just a vibe coder tool. A lot| to the tools, I think I've seen V0 not being so good at being agentic, which means that it can… it cannot continue to loop through.
05:20, and come back and, like, fix it. Of course, it's possible that by the time the video gets released, they would have fixed it. It's a very dynamic space. But in this particular case, it actually can do a lot| to the fixing for you. So, which is exactly what we are seeing here, and it's kind| to going ahead and doing that for you.
05:42, Alright, so it looks like it has completed this, and at this point, since we are using some| to the advanced features, image generation and everything else, it wants me to kind| to use and connect my API key. It's saying that, hey, I'm using some intelligent
05:59, software here.
06:01, And if you want to allow that, you better give me your API key. In this particular case, I'm just gonna give it my API key. So what it is, is like, if you've not created a project, Google will ask you to create a project.
06:15, You don't need to do this for most cases, unless you're using, like, an LLM engine, which I think, going forward, you should. And I'm just gonna choose one| to them.
06:24, And, and provide that. With that, voila, looks like the code is completely generated. The preview is, available.
06:36, At this point, let me actually, oops.
06:42, Go back to my apps… Social eco…
06:48, And let's try it out. So what's in your mind? So, what I want to do is…
06:56, One, two… Post.
07:04, An insight that… Vivecoding tools… Can be easily… used by.
07:13, Product managers.
07:16, without… Needing.
07:21, to know coding.
07:24, Right, good.
07:27, goes far.
07:29, Social media.
07:32, For our product managers.
07:35, In Silicon.
07:37, Bali.
07:39, Okay, let's… I've never tried it, so this is not even the use case that I was thinking, but I like it. Let's see what it comes back with. Let's go to full screen, just so that we know.
07:53, What's going on? So, at this point, what it is doing is actually doing a lot| to things. It's actually going back, taking the prompt, and it has, built on, and we'll talk about how it has built out, but it has built out the magical
08:05, a way| to kind| to sending out and actually giving you what each| to the posts should actually look like. Let's go through some| to them, right? So, I want to post something about, for LinkedIn, Twitter, and Instagram, generating a visualization. It says, the technical barrier for product managers is crumbling.
08:24, For years, the standards advice for ambitious PMs in the Valley was learn to code or master SQL, while valuable ROI on syntax, yada yada yada. Here is why this matters in Silicon Valley PMs. Rapid prototyping.
08:39, better specs, autonomy, we aren't, replacing engineers, we are becoming better partners. Are you integrating AI coding tools into your product workflows? Let's discuss. So, let me see what happens if I try to actually post it on LinkedIn.
08:53, I don't know if I will actually post it on LinkedIn, but maybe I should. But you can see that it actually, even the fonts and others is something that it has taken, that it finds useful around LinkedIn.
09:07, And, if I just copy this, okay, just for this, generally, I never do this, but,
09:16, Just for, just for the purposes here.
09:20, Right? I'm just gonna go ahead and post it, okay, for technical, but if you find this thing, please go and like my post. I'm doing something that I'm not used to. But you can see, at the same time, it has done the same thing about Twitter. I bet it has kept
09:38, the characters at under 140 characters. If not, you can ask it to kind| to do it. There you go. It actually does, I did it. So, I'm gonna download this image.
09:49, And let's see.
09:52, Twitter, alright?
09:54, And then I'm gonna just post it.
09:57, I'm not gonna do the Instagram one, nobody really. But it has the hashtag and everything else.
10:03, So now what you can see is it has different types| to image. It says that, should I do professional video urgent? So this is fantastic, right? What it has done is, like, created a social media masterpiece for you, which is much more formatted for each| to them. You can do it on ChatGPD, but it will not be the same. And you created this
10:23, with a single prompt. We can actually look at it, how this looks on a mobile device. It looks pretty cool. What if I rotated this device? How will it look like? It looks pretty cool. And then I can see it on tablet, or I can come back to the current device.
10:42, What I can also do is I can actually go ahead and publish.
10:48, this thing. So when I deploy this, it does ask me for the project, so if you have never created a project on Google Cloud, for the first time, it will prompt you to kind| to do that. If you have trouble having, finding that, ping me. I'll help you, kind| to, like, guide you through some| to the steps that is required.
11:05, But I'm gonna deploy this app at this point, and every VIP coding platform, you have to deploy. The code cannot stay on the browser. And, voila, there you go. I have, like.
11:17, URL, which I can look, and the great thing is, actually, this is something I like. So, looks like it is asking me to connect my paid account. So, if I publish this app.
11:30, It's possible that I don't have to pay for other people's tokens, so anybody can start using this, and that would be possible. The other thing that it has is, like, select API key for your app.
11:42, And, it kind| to lets me just chase that key to something else if I, really wanted to. So, the other things that they have is,
11:53, You can actually annotate the app.
11:56, Where you can say things like, draw or write directly on the app preview to instantly communicate your vision, right? So we can, do this, and I can say.
12:07, For example, here, I can say.
12:14, Can you make this more visual?
12:18, Actually, I think it's completely fine, but just for the sake| to it, you can actually say something like this, and then it should go ahead and complete that information.
12:28, you're able to kind| to connect from, let's say, if you have the spec or anything others on your Google Drive, you can actually connect your Google Drive. You can connect your upload files and stuff like that, as well as you can look at the settings, and you can say, like, you know, maybe 3 Pro is too expensive, or maybe I need to kind| to move to something else.
12:48, And, you know, what it should actually use. So, there you have it, like, super powerful. And actually, if you find this, like, if you have, find this app is working out for you, you can just copy this app so you don't have to start from scratch, anymore.
13:06, So, let's see what's going on with the user interface in a minute, and then we'll close it out after that.
13:12, Okay, still cramping up, you can see it's, it's been 160 seconds, so…
13:19, It's been cranking for quite a bit, for a simple UI change, so let's see what comes with it.
13:25, While it's generating that, I just saw, actually read the prompt, because remember, we auto-generated the prompt?
13:31, Here, it does… did say that, posts tailored to LinkedIn, long form, so LinkedIn, they have asked you to, kind| to, long form. Twitter or X, they ask you to be short and punchy, and Instagram, it specifically asked to, kind| to, visual focus on hashtags, along with…
13:48, unique visuals and everything else. So you can see, that's actually, pretty important. You can actually click on these things while it is thinking, by the way. I know it's been thinking for 240 seconds. If you're not sure what's going on, you can, again, if I go back up here.
14:03, Where it says, generally thinking. You can collapse it, and it just… it just shows that it's going for 260 seconds. But if you can actually expand it, it shows, exactly what it is working on. So we'll come back, after all the cranking is done.
14:23, Right? Still cranking for 60 seconds, so… It's thinking a while.
14:30, Alright, so looks like it thought for 538 seconds.
14:34, I just gave up. I don't see any kind| to, like, changes.
14:40, But tell you what, guys, what? Like, we wanted to focus on just the Gemini tool. We'll work on, like, how do you actually debug these things, how you can work through, in the future course. So, for now, let's just stay here.
14:52, And I want to come back and actually look at how do you kind| to go about building other products in the future. AI Studio, very powerful tool, highly recommend it. Thank you.
