Video Title: VibePRD: Module 3: The Drafter (A&B)
Duration: 13:56 (Approx)

Transcript:

00:02: Hey guys, welcome back. Let's, jump into Module 3, what we call is the after. So, again, as a reference.
00:11: We're gonna go through a five-step process to, for building YPRD. Module 1, we looked at the shell, like, building just the front end. Module 2, we are looking at how do we kind of build the interviewer. Then we looked at, how do we… Module 3, now we're going to look at how do we draft the PRD itself.
00:31: And so if you go to your capstone… Sorry.
00:35: Into your canonical doc, and if you jump onto Module 3, what we're gonna do now is, given that we already have,
00:45: the VIP PRD running and where we are able to kind of run the demos and stuff like that. I'm going to copy over the next, checkpoint for,
00:56: Third one, and we'll go through what exactly it is, why it's building. So let me just copy over the entire blue section here.
01:05: blade over here, so that, it can start to kind bit of build. Alright, let's look through Model 3.
01:13: So… Here's,
01:16: what it is, right? Once we have understood the interviewer does the job of really identifying the key need, the drafter needs to draft the PRD.
01:27: And, so what it means is that even though what you saw was my previous button, Generate PRD, was already generating, we haven't really guided it to what a PRD is, and it's probably just generating a random PRD.
01:40: that it thinks it should be, right? I want to be much more specific, things that we control in the way it appears.
01:49: So, when you click Generate PRD, YPRD takes the entire interview conversation and produces a structured professional PRD.
01:57: And that will appear on the right-hand side. The documents would have clear sections, which is what we will define, is well-written, and feels like something you could actually share with your engineering team or leadership, for that matter, right? Here's the thing.
02:11: we are… the approach that we're gonna take, and the reason I am calling it the interviewer or the drafter, is behind the scene, I've been really kind of, like, trying to build it as an agent. So, what it means is that…
02:25: What we'll do is we'll start to build multiple agent architecture.
02:29: Even though that sounds pretty complicated, it just knows that it's just two different prompts.
02:34: And the challenge with using just one agent or one L&M for doing everything, which is interviewing, at the same time it is also generating, is, is the fact
02:45: that, you know, the interviewer and generating is the problem, that it just tries to do too much, and we can get into multi-agent architecture separately in some kind of a discussion, but I think just understand that having multiple agents is going to help, and in this case, I'm going to build an agent, what we call is the drafter.
03:06: When the drafter is a technical writer, it produces structured documents. Same AI models, completely different behavior because of the prompt is different. And we could also end up using, like, different models and everything else if we really needed to.
03:19: The suppression matters. If you ask the same eye to both interview and write, it tries to do both at once, and it does nothing well. So, here's the prompt.
03:29: For checkpoint A, we're gonna say, wire the generate PRD button? When clicked, here is what should happen. Collect the entire chat history from the left panel, send it to the AI with different system prompt than the chat uses. This is a separate agent, so this is where we are calling out the agent.
03:47: the drafter. Do not reuse the interviewer system prompt. Display the results in the right panel, replacing the sample PRD.
03:56: The document should render as a formatted text with proper headings, visual hierarchy, not raw markdown characters. Like, this is something that we saw in the chat, like, we had to kind of, like, it was showing the raw markdown characters, so we kind of fixed that.
04:09: While generating show a loading state on the button, generating with the spinner, okay? The drafter system prompt, I use this exactly. So now, what is the system prompt that goes into the agent? This is something that you can evolve if you're building your own, like, you can actually evolve on what is the right way to kind of do it.
04:26: And this is also where, if you were to kind of support multiple different types of templates, this is exactly what she will also provide this to be editable, the template to be editable, but in this case, we are going to hard-code it.
04:40: So you are a senior technical writer at the top-tier product company. You have received a transcript of the product interview between CPO and the product manager, right? So we are saying that this is the transcript.
04:50: Your job is to transform this interview into a clear, structured PRD document.
04:55: And then we are saying, once we have given them the objective, we are saying, output the PRD in a markdown with exactly this section. So a markdown is the most preferred way of kind of outputting within AI models right now, which means that it just uses a simple text to get to the right outcome.
05:14: So, here you can see the first item is…
05:16: Product name, product requirement docs. How did I get so good at, like, writing these prompts? I didn't write it, right? I actually used AI to generate a lot of those things, and we'll talk about those maybe before your capstone, but at this point, just follow along. But I think you want to actually use AI to generate these prompts and kind of iterate through them.
05:36: So, product name, product requirement docs. Product statement.
05:41: And then, say, write 2 or 3 sentences that clearly articulates the problem, be specific out who has the problem and why, existing solutions fall short, right? So I'm going to start with the problem, then we get into the target users, then we get into the requirements as to, we must have V1, V2, like, you can also call it P0, P1.
06:00: And then success metric, like, what is the success metric, which we have asked in the interview? What are some of the non-goals? Risk and open questions.
06:09: Right? And, rules, like, write in clear, professional prose, no jargons, right? Like, so this is just the format that you'd want. If you want a specific format, it's okay to kind of attach the entire format itself.
06:23: Be specific, replace vague statement with concrete ones. If the interviewer left gaps, the PM gave vague answers. Note them explicitly in risk and open questions, rather than making things up, right? This is important. This is a way of kind of grounding.
06:36: Do not add requirement of features that were discussed in the interview. Stay faithful to what the PM said.
06:42: keep the entire document under 800 words. I don't know if we really need to do that, so we can maybe make it, I think, I can easily make it 2,000 words. And,
06:54: a PRD that nobody reads is worthless. Strip any StepX markers from the chat history before sending it to the draft, right? So we are… because we have some kind of,
07:05: markers. Do not change the chat panel or anything else. So let me kind of go back, and I think my… this thing has already run. What I'm gonna do is I'll just run the demo again, because that should, clear up the PRD. In this case, you can see app is running.
07:24: I think it has completed, whatever I pasted as the prompt for the A, and so let's see what's, what happens here.
07:33: Alright, it's just going through non-goals.
07:36: risks, and the generic PRD should just show up.
07:43: Okay, great. Now I'm actually gonna generate… hit generate PRD out of my, it's not generating, so that's good that it's not generating its own way. You can see there's a spinner that we talked about, so the spinner is going on, generating a PRD from the interviews, and it will actually go ahead and generate the PRD.
08:08: Alright, just… okay, looks like it's done. So, it's a smart grocery list, product requirement document, problem statement, busy household waste 15 to 20 minutes, weekly manually rebuilding groceries list from memory. It says target users.
08:25: And it has provided the required must-have V1, Smart Citizen Engine, manual list creation, purchase history.
08:33: Again, depending on what model, and I think it's using the Cloud model, but we don't know if it's using Sonid or Opus, and those are some of the things that you can look at. And you can modify your system prompt to kind of improve.
08:46: There is a success metric identified here, non-goal, risks and open questions, right? These are all specified here. And we can also see that there's a regenerate PRD button here, which would just kind of go ahead and regenerate it.
09:02: While it's doing it, let's kind of go through the checkpoint, right?
09:05: So, complete a full interview and chat, all six steps. Click generate PRD. So, I've been using the demo mode, but please use the regular mode as well, right? You don't want to ship a product without using the regular mode. I'll be doing that offline as well. Click generate PRD. Does a loading state appear?
09:22: Does the right panel update with the actual PRD? Does it have all six sections? Read through the PRD? Does it reflect what you actually wanted?
09:29: Is the format correct? And it has regenerated at this point, and it may exactly be the same unless you ask it to kind of modify. All right, so that is all for the checkpoint A. Let's go through the checkpoint B.
09:47: So, now that we have actually drafted the, the document, one of the things that we would love to do is actually provide an inline editing. And, so let me actually first copy-paste this thing, so that while it's going, we can go through the prompt itself.
10:05: Alright, I'm just pasted the model. So what we are doing is, we are allowing inline editing, and make the PRD in the right panel editable.
10:16: the user should be able to click on any text in the right planners and edit it directly, like editing in a Google Doc. So that allows us to kind of make some small changes, otherwise, if it's always going to be a single shot, it may start to become more challenging.
10:31: Add a small editor indicator that appears when the user has made manual changes to the generated PRD. So it just… you know that this is not something that has been just there. Also, add a regenerate button, a small refresh icon next to each section heading.
10:46: When clicked, it should regenerate only that section using the chart history and the rest of the PRDS context. The other section should remain unchanged. So this is important, right? Like, what if you're just wanting to regenerate a particular section and not the entire thing?
11:00: And do not change the chat or regenerate PRD flow, only add editing capabilities to the right panel. So, let's see, the model is, kind of just going through, so we'll wait for this to, finish, and see if we can have that granular editing and updates going on here.
11:19: Right? Still going on. You can see,
11:23: It's just kind of cranking through, building one thing at a time, it's just, checking some validation.
11:29: And, so we'll come back when it's done.
11:32: Alright, it's done. So let me hit the demo again, and kind of go through that to see, where we land. I'll be right back after it's generated the PRD to see the edit.
11:46: Actually, I'll let you guys see this.
11:53: Please be doing this, follow along, alright? Don't, don't just watch.
11:59: Pause the video and go back and, follow along.
12:03: Okay, so the risks is going, so I'm going to hit generate PRD, and let's see if it has the edit and the individual section aspect of it. So the things that…
12:16: We are looking for is editability and persex integration.
12:29: Right, so it has generated, so you can see…
12:31: On every section, there is, there is a generation.
12:35: aspect, so if I clicked on V2, it's regenerating that, that's pretty cool.
12:41: And does it let me actually edit it? Okay, as soon as I double-click on that. So maybe I don't want this topic, so I'm just gonna do this.
12:50: And does it autosave? Actually, I didn't pay attention to which one I deleted, so let me just say weekly shopping reminder notification, so we don't want that, or actually move that to V2.
13:04: And…
13:06: Oh, pretty cool. So it just shows edited as well, and then you can see that, it is there.
13:12: Of course, what happens, it shows edited over here as well, like, what happens if I hit regenerate PRD, and what should be the right thing? Those are the things that we will take a look in the future, or maybe those are product enhancements that you should kind of think through.
13:26: But let's look through what are we looking for. So, clicking on paragraph period, you can edit the text directly? Yes. Does the edited indicator appear after you make changes? Yes. Click the generator icon to see one heading. Does only that section change, or will the others stay the same? Yes. So…
13:43: That has worked, and of course, regenerate has generated the whole thing again, but I think it's pretty cool to see that we are able to kind of separate it out into multiple documents or multiple places with the editable.
13:56: Good luck building this, and I think this is starting to kind of take shape. So I'll see you guys in the next one. Thanks.
