Video Title: VibePRD - Intro
Duration: 08:15

Transcript:

00:01, Hey, everyone. So, today we are gonna go through building YPRD. This is the follow-along week, so just gonna build along with me a product called YPRD.
00:13, You know, in 5 sessions, and you know, you are spending 25 minutes or less, you should be able to kind of build this product, end-to-end. The beauty of this is, I'm not gonna build a separate product every time. We're gonna try to kind of continue, which is what generally you will do. I'll try to continue
00:32, to build the entire product for you, end-to-end, right? And all the updates and changes that I make will be on the same product. What is VipRD? VIPRD is a…
00:44, is an AI product manager that interviews you on what product ideas that you want to build, and then ultimately writes your PRD for you. And it critiques, it's, you know, using agentic aspects, we can further critique our own work, and maybe, over time generate OKRs and Jira and everything else, right?
01:03, At a minimum, I would say that initially focus on up to Day 5, but I'm also adding some additional content for Day 6 and day 7, which you don't have to do now.
01:14, But as an option, you can come back and either look at it and try to follow along. Just know that those concepts might be a little bit more advanced, but some of you may want to do that. As long as you're willing to put that extra effort and, like, try to kind of… try to build that more advanced features like that, it would be useful for you to kind of come back.
01:34, But if you're not ready for it, just know that you can always come back to that later, or try it out some of the time. What I recommend is do the Day 5, Day 1 through Day 5 now, and then move to Capstone without actually getting stuck in just enhancing that.
01:50, That allows you to kind of build a good capstone, and then come back and learn about some of the advanced techniques that I'll talk about.
01:56, Right? And,
02:00, So, I also think that this can help you generate PRDs that you can use for your capstone as well, right? Like, so that could be a good way to kind of do this.
02:09, In terms of the screenshots, I have added some of the screenshots here, into the YPRD screenshot tab. I may move it into the same tab.
02:20, But what it will look like is the chart on the left-hand side and the PRD on the right-hand side. And it may even show you things like, can you go step-by-step and show the progression of as we are kind of inquiring, like, what's going on? And then there's a generate PRD button.
02:36, Over time, you should be able to kind| to do a lot more, and we will see how that works and what happens. The way I can actually generate this is actually copy the entire doc and paste it into Gemini over here, and it says for each of the states, generate an image to demonstrate conceptual wireframe, right? So I asked
02:55, Gemini to generate the wireframe for you. The reason I'm showing you this is this is something that you can also do. You know, once you have prepared and thought about what you want to do, you can actually generate. So, first attempt, you can see.
03:06, Gemini didn't actually generate the image, but then I actually selected the tools, and I selected the create image, and asked it to generate images for each of the… each of the site would look like, a wireframe, and then you can see it actually generated a bunch of wireframes for me.
03:22, Yeah, if I want to make some changes, I can make those changes here and kind| to bring it along. Or, if you don't want to use Gemini, you can also use Stitch.
03:31, What Stitch does is I actually took the same prompt that I'm gonna put onto, like, Replit or something else. I actually put it in the split, sorry, in Stitch, and it generated me a PRD, wireframe, right? At this point, I have option of, editing it, or design systems, or some of the others.
03:50, Or I can generate variations, which is exactly what I did. I added… asked you to kind| to generate two variations, and it went ahead and generated the two variations here. So you can just say, generate variation, and let's say if I want to just generate, a variation, I can also say, more…
04:08, More fun and modern.
04:11, For example, and I can ask you to kind| to generate, and it will go ahead and generate two more variations for me. You can see it's starting to add those things. You can look at one of the optional videos where I've talked about how to use Stitch, right? If you're not certain.
04:28, how Stitch works, and that is something that she will be, able to do.
04:35, Now.
04:37, what I would say is, let's going back to the document here is, as a finished product, what is YPRD? Well.
04:50, go through the entire process, but it allows you to kind| to open up a chat and ask for a certain product PRE to be generated.
04:59, And it kind| to progresses through multiple steps, problem, user, job super done, metrics, non-goals, and risks, and generates that PRE document for you, right? Like, over time, you can figure out your own patterns, if this is what you want, and for your own company, you can…
05:14, do it. This does that by YPRD will actually greet you, like, hey, I'm a YPRD, your AI CPO.
05:22, Before I write anything, I want to understand what you're building, so it actually interviews you, lets you start with the problem, what problem are you trying to solve, who feels this pain today, and what do they currently do about this, right? And, so I'll let you kind| to read through this thing and understand what exactly it is doing.
05:42, One of the things you will see is, here's the bonus thing, where in the bonus, I want you to kind| to build org memory, web search, and multiple output formats, like PRD, or, like, it could have OKR documents, or maybe even do things like Jira integration. We'll decide on some of these things as to what we want.
06:00, Right?
06:01, So, for day 1 through 5, the way this works is, first of all, you will need Replit, so if you don't have a Replit account, please go ahead and get it. More than likely, you will have to, very, very likely that you will have to upgrade your plan, at least to a $20 plan.
06:17, And not only that, you may have to pay for more tokens. If this is something that you want to avoid, I would encourage you to kind| to do your own research, but I highly, highly recommend to kind| to just follow along and kind| to spend that $2,200 over time to kind| to learn these things. We'll go through…
06:37, And what… what we will also do is day 6 and 7 will come out of, later.
06:43, What is out of scope is we will have no team feature, so no collaboration, no template library, so if you want to have different types of PRD, no custom user accounts, like, we will just use Replitz built-in auth. And, if you want to do more.
07:01, Then you… this is things that you should put into your capstone, not here.
07:06, Right? So I have some instructions on how to kind| to get your replicate account here, which you can look at it. Just note that there are two checkpoints for each day, right? There is a checkpoint A and checkpoint B. I've tried to kind| to break up each day into, like, two parts, so the do the A first and do the B later.
07:23, That way, it's not one single prompt that I'm just kind| to giving it away.
07:26, And the way it will work is, for each day, I have what are you building, and why this matters, and then I have the exact prompt that you can post into Replit. So you can, in this case, you can just take the entire thing.
07:40, and paste it in, Replit. Actually, maybe I'll start changing some of this into, like, blue. So you can just paste it into Replit as is, and that should build. And then you are able to validate your checkpoint, like, you know, this is what you should look for, and then once you are done.
07:56, You should do, another… so I'm just gonna start making these things blue, but I think look at checkpoint B, which is exactly the prong, and then you can do. And from there, we'll move on to the next day. Alright, excited to kind| to, like, see you guys on the other side.
08:15, Alright, so with that, let's jump on to the next step.
