Video Title: Building with API (no API key) - Earthquake Explorer (USGS)
Duration: 05:09

Transcript:

00:00, Alright, so now I want to talk about bringing in APIs into your documentation, or into your product.
00:08, I'm actually divided up into two parts. API with no key, so I want you guys to kind| to just start and try it out when API does not require key.
00:17, First of all, what is an API? API is Application Programmatic interface. Hold on, let me just check. That's true, Application Programming Interface. What it really means is that when computers need to kind| to talk to each other, when systems need to talk to each other.
00:34, They will provide you a URL endpoint, and which will respond into various different forms. JSON is the most common way of kind| to doing it, but there could be XML, there could be some of the other ways. But if you have to kind| to talk to, let's say, Salesforce API, instead of using the user interface, you're using the programmable URLs to kind| to connect to each other.
00:54, There are generally, two major types of API requests. One is GET, which is when you want to get something.
01:03, From somewhere, which says, give me a list of all the YouTube videos with XYZ, that's a get.
01:09, Or there could be a post, when you're on a post, something is like, I have some information for you, here you go. And there's so many different approaches and ways to kind| to use them, and there are, of course, get-in posts are not the only way to kind| to do it, but those are the most common ways of kind| to doing it.
01:23, So what it means is that if your application needs to talk to somebody else, like, you want to interact with a third-party application, you want to interact and get some data from somewhere, let's say weather information and any of those other information.
01:37, APIs can really, really help, right? So let's start out with kind| to just using some publicly available APIs, which are not, actually behind any kind| to an API key, and then we'll talk about what it takes to kind| to get an API key and do it.
01:51, So, in this particular case, we have a few different examples, right? So there is an earthquake Explorer.
01:58, Which is basically gives you what the earthquakes, you know, if there's an earthquake, what to do. So I'm just gonna actually take this.
02:07, And, copy the entire thing, and I'm gonna remove the quick prompt.
02:11, Part of it as well, and we'll come back and talk about what that is.
02:16, So, okay, alright, so I'm just gonna, post it here,
02:23, hit go, and I'll tell you guys what the prompt itself is. So the prompt basically says that there's this endpoint, earthquake.
02:31, which kind| to provides, JSON, so let's go back to the government earthquake.usgs.gov. It provides what are the various earthquake hazards which are possible.
02:44, And so we want to build an app that lists recent earthquakes using USGS Public API.
02:50, In this case, a detailed instruction will look like.
02:56, connect to the USGS endpoint. You want to provide the endpoint URL or the documentation, because there is sometimes the variations of version 1, version 2, version 3, it may change significantly.
03:07, You want to build an earthquake Explorer, you say, go fetch the data, call the USGS endpoint to fetch earthquake from the last 7 days.
03:15, And then it should have some kind| to filter, like, what do you want, actually, it to do? Filter earthquake by minimum magnitude, short time and magnitude. UI is loading in error states. Also, constraint is no API key and client send fetch only, right? Like, there's no server-side code it is trying to build, it's trying to keep it easy.
03:33, So, let's go back here and see where we are, and just come back once it's done.
03:39, While this is cranking up, I want to show you some of the other examples that we have. You know, you can… there is a book search API, which can allow you to kind| to search for some of the books, you can build around that.
03:51, There is a random user directory. This is also pretty cool. What it does is, if I kind| to, like, remove the API from the end of it, it generates a random user, and it's free API and open source and free for you to kind| to use it.
04:06, Try that out. There's a public holiday viewer, it's just kind| to like, you can see, build a holiday viewer using a public holidays API. Or you may have, like, a space image of the day, which is also pretty cool, like, what are the images, if you want to just,
04:24, use that aspect of it. Again, so let's go back and see. Looks like it has completed.
04:31, And, let's see what it comes back with.
04:35, Alright, there you go, I'm just gonna collapse this over. So you can see it has built the Earthquake Explorer, and it is actually showing,
04:44, all the different earthquakes that are happening at different places. You're able to kind| to put the lat-long here, based on that. Of course, you may want to make it much more user-friendly by actually connecting it to maybe Google Maps API, which kind| to, based on the location, gives the lat-long.
05:03, to it.
05:04, But, there you go. That's, that's without the API key.
05:09, That's, that's without the API key.
