Video Title: Vibe-coding-personal-portal-lovable
Duration: 18:41

Transcript:

00:02, Hey, everyone.
00:04, Welcome, and I wanted to kind| to talk about building your first user interface-based VIP coding. So today, we want to do the simplest thing that we can do. We're gonna build a basic web page.
00:21, about something that we are interested in. It could be a profile page, it could be, something else, but this is a static page that you'd build, and the static page will be used, by you to kind| to generate somewhere else. So this is the basic foundation| to what it takes to kind| to build by coding.
00:37, We will start with one tool, but you don't have to stay with this tool as you kind| to learn about different tools and everything else. You're welcome to kind| to, not only welcome, we are, you know, encouraged to kind| to try out some| to this tool somewhere else. So with that, why don't we get started?
00:53, So, what I'm gonna do is,
00:55, let you guys help create, like, a profile page for you. To help simulate that, what I'm gonna actually do is… I'm gonna ask you to kind| to build something very simple.
01:08, And instead| to picking myself, I'm gonna choose Yamini Rangans, he is the CEO| to HubSpot.com, the CRM system and the marketing system that is there. And then let's see how does the profile come up, right? So, based on that, we will see what's going on.
01:26, I can choose any tool, but I'm gonna choose to use Leviable. So let me just kinda quickly share my screen, and go from there.
01:35, Alright, so…
01:37, What I'm gonna do is go to lovable.com, or dev, looks like. So, within the lovable.dev, as soon as you go in, you will see a prompt| to what you want to build.
01:49, I'm gonna use voice a lot for some| to these things, mainly because it allows you guys to kind| to follow along, and you don't have to kind| to see me stumble as I type.
01:59, So I'm gonna hit the voice command here.
02:01, And… And say something like, hello?
02:08, I want to build a personal profile website.
02:13, for Yamini Rangan, CEO| to HubSpot.
02:17, Can you help me create a basic website that allows me to kind| to, like, showcase my skills as Yamini?
02:25, And be able to kind| to, like, display things that I do, over there. So, be creative, but keep it professional, something that a CEO| to HubSpot would want to have. Please build me a website.
02:44, Okay?
02:45, Alright, I had to redo that. Apparently, the voice button is not appropriate, so go figure it out, but I typed it out for you guys. And as soon as I say go, your lovable dev should automatically just kind| to go ahead and build it out. While it is doing that.
03:02, You can see that this is Yamini Arangan. She is the CEO| to HubSpot.
03:08, And, there is… the reason I selected that, it has multiple places that CS works. CS worked on HubSpot, she has worked on…
03:16, Dropbox, Workday, Aprio, and, like, multiple different other experiences that she has. So, it allows us to kind| to build a diverse set| to things. So, what you can see is,
03:29, to build a website, you don't actually need to know any kind| to a coding. Just by providing, vibing it up here, you're able to kind| to see the outcomes. I will create a sophisticated executing portfolio website, so it understood that it is trying to build an executive portfolio.
03:45, Design inspiration, it is taking a clean, authoritative, executing presence site with HubSpot's warm, choral accent, so it is actually automatically picked up that it wants to do it in HubSpot's coral accent.
03:56, And for, feature for V1, Striking Hero section, about biography, key achievements, speaking and media sections, contact connector footer, and, various things. So, I'll be right back, I think you guys should try it out. Pause the video now, take this prompt.
04:15, exact prompt, or make a little bit| to a difference. Replace… you can actually just follow along to two different projects. One is follow along and build Yamini Rangan's HubSpot, but you may also want to just replace that with your own product as well. So, we'll be right back.
04:34, It's been about 3 minutes, still going, right? Depending upon your prompt and the method that you are using, you may see that it may actually take few minutes, no more than a few minutes, less than 5 for sure. Sometimes it's done in 30 seconds, sometimes it takes a few minutes to kind| to get it done.
04:53, Alright, looks like it is just about…
04:56, Ready to kind| to launch.
04:59, Okay, so… it says it has completed.
05:03, And, as soon as it's ready, it should kind| to display here. There's a preview tab on the right-hand side.
05:09, And, hmm
05:13, So the preview… okay, so I had to kind| to, like, go back and click it over here.
05:19, So it, actually took… so let's see, it says YR, Yamini Rangan, CEO and board member. It has, I don't know if that's her. I'll let you guys decide.
05:31, Maybe an older picture, or maybe it's a stock photo, because sometimes they have challenges getting, like, the latest photo, because| to a copyright point| to view.
05:40, It actually connects to the LinkedIn and the Twitter, so it figured out, it actually went and searched online and figured out a lot| to them. You can see it's actually using HubSpot colors.
05:51, Right, and so you can see that it has built the entire thing end-to-end. And at this point, this site is actually, you know, you may want to check with making sure that all| to the things are ready, and if it is ready, you can actually just publish this website. You can open it into a new tab, like this, so that is by clicking the…
06:11, open a new tab, so you can actually see how it looks like, and then you're able to kind| to publish that. I see that there is an edit with Lovable here. There's an option to kind| to change that, so I can go to,
06:26, go to the settings, and within the settings, there is this thing called Hide Livable Badge, so I'm gonna just hide that, so that it does not say that I've done this in Livable. But, at this point, I can actually go ahead and just publish this.
06:43, So, who can visit this URL? Anyone? And I hit publish. What it does is, like, because this URL is only accessible as a developer or just for you, it's not really available to the world.
06:55, Right? By publishing it, you're really kind| to pushing it into the server, where the code that you have just written, and you have written a lot| to code, so you can see it says yaminispotlight.lovable.app, let me just try to copy and open that, sorry.
07:11, Here?
07:15, And you can see that it actually does… this is a live website. Of course, the URL is lovable.app. In the future, we will talk to you about how you can map it to your own custom domain. And at this point, the site is up and running.
07:29, The thing that I wanna do here is I wanna do a couple| to things. First| to all.
07:34, I want to…
07:36, I think I need more details. So, to add more details, what I want to do is I'm going to go back to the LinkedIn page, and you can do this for your own, or anybody else, I'm doing it for them, but if you go to the LinkedIn and say save to PDF, if you kind| to, like, want to see the detailed profile.
07:54, What it does is it downloads the PDF, as,
08:01, it downloads a PDF that you can see. So here.
08:05, This is LinkedIn's standard download button, which kind| to shows exactly what she has done. So what I'm gonna do here at this point is, I'm just gonna take this and upload this to,
08:18, livable. So I'll come over here.
08:21, And what I'm gonna do is just, add attachment, over here. So, to add the attachment, what I will do is I'll just take the file, and you can't see the file, but you can see that as soon as I drag it over here, it says add file, and different places may have different ways to kind| to attach it. I will just say, I have…
08:40, more details.
08:43, Right? So what it does is, like, it should pull up the PDF file and get all the details| to what I have done, so that it is able to kind| to put that here.
08:54, I'm gonna let it, crank for a while.
08:57, And then come back, to see if it is updating with the right information. You can say, says that I have the detailed information from Yamini's LinkedIn profile, let me update the website with accurate carrier details, and add a comprehensive timeline section.
09:13, Okay, I think it's almost, done at this point. I can, you know, you can sometimes, if you don't see the preview, you can click something else and kind| to come back.
09:23, And, see, or there's a refresh button here, all| to them should have, but let me wait for it to finish processing until it says that it's done. Okay, looks like it's done, so I'm just gonna refresh it.
09:37, And, it's ideally refreshed by itself, but you can see a lot more tabs. And then if I go, Tech Industry Veteran.
09:46, 25 plus years as a tech leadership, so it actually gives the entire profile here for easy for anybody to kind| to browse. It has all the other aspects| to it. And then, at this point, you can just publish again, and this will be up and running.
10:01, But I wanted to do it a little bit differently, right? Like, I don't think Yaminias would represent herself just as HubSpot.
10:08, And maybe it's not appropriate that she's using the HubSpot,
10:14, colors here, Cecilia used her own colors. So I have two choices. I can just say, I don't…
10:20, Want to use.
10:22, HubSpot colors.
10:25, So just kind| to, just by saying that, it will just go pick up something else, but, and it will do it, so we'll let it crank for a minute. But what I can also do is actually look for some inspiration.
10:37, on what is a good website design. So, for inspiration, there are so many different websites. Let me take a couple| to them.
10:46, And, wait, it's asking me a certain question. What color direction would you like to prefer for Yamini? Elegant gold and navy? Teal and charcoal, a burgundy and slate?
10:58, And we're gonna… okay, I think I like this, so I'm just gonna submit this.
11:03, And let it crank. While it's cranking, let me show you guys what I do for, finding some inspirations.
11:10, Actually, looks like the website have redesigned, so now you can see that the website has completely redesigned in terms| to the colors and everything else.
11:19, And it is no more using…
11:21, the color pattern from HubSpot we wanted to kind| to move away from. The look and feel still looks exactly the same, which is, if this is what you wanted, like,| to course, upload the picture properly and everything else.
11:33, and ask you to kind| to do that. If you have a GitHub link, just ask, say that, can you add my GitHub link over here? Or if you have any other thing that you want to add, that can also be done.
11:43, But for website design, what I typically do is I go to Dribbble.com or somewhere else. It can be Google Images as well, and I can search for certain types| to websites, because it has a lot| to websites. So, okay, let's see.
11:58, You can see that they have multiple designs that they show. If I like something, I'm just gonna go ahead and use it. Since I don't know what is the right one, maybe I'm gonna search for personal branding, right? Like, and you can choose for something else, and see if something, something catches your eye. Maybe you wanna do…
12:18, Okay, this could be an interesting one, let's explore that. This could be an interesting one, let's just explore that.
12:26, And, maybe, I wanna just explore this one.
12:31, Alright, and let's see if this is the kind| to website that I like.
12:38, And, I'm not sure exactly what it is, doing here. So, let's just see if the design… it's not very clear what it is doing here, so even though it looks exciting initially.
12:51, Maybe not as much, so this is good. So you can see it has, like, the image here, and it actually does show, pretty nicely. But I think I like this, right? Like, so it's a business strategist, and that's what they're gonna do. So I'm gonna just copy image.
13:07, And come back to Lovable and say.
13:09, Paste it here, and say, can you redesign the website…
13:20, 2… Take inspiration.
13:25, from image.
13:26, Attached.
13:28, So, we're not giving a lot
13:30, At this point, right? What we have done is, like, we have just given one image and nothing else. It does not have, like, any other aspects around what's going on, but you can see there is, like, we are going after a little bit| to a green color, we're going after, like, a bold image.
13:44, We're going after the scheduler call, and, you know, the LinkedIn icons are on the right-hand side. So let's see how much| to this level is able to kind| 's| to pick up. It's not important that it should pick up everything, and at this point, you have to kind| to start telling it, specifically what you like.
14:00, But there's this concept about…
14:03, letting the models be creative by letting them choose the design that they want, like we did, and I think it's very good at, like, building out that. But also, like, starting to be specific. Our choice| to color and saying, don't use HubSpot is the specificity. Build for Yamini is the specificity.
14:21, But this is also another level| to specificity where we're saying, like, hey, build something like this.
14:26, But we are letting it also be creative by letting it choose exactly what and how it's gonna do. So there is a level| to creativity and specificity is what you should aim for.
14:38, Right, so let's see if it is able to kind| 's| to redesign, or how well it is able to kind| 's| to do it. Sometimes we may have to iterate, sometimes it works.
14:46, One thing you will notice is from time to time, you will get an error, and we haven't gotten an error, so I'm hoping that we get some errors so that we can debug as well.
14:55, But generally, if it gets an error, you can just say, like, the website has an error, can you fix it?
15:00, That's the simplest thing. Or sometimes you just take a screenshot| to the error that you're getting and paste it back and say, hey, this is the error I'm getting. We'll talk about error and debugability in the future, separate video altogether, but I think that is something that you should definitely look at.
15:15, So, still almost done. You can see that it has started to move some| to the things around. I don't think it's completely done yet, so it has gone through the components, but we can see it's starting to bring some green tone. It has left some| to the bottom ones alone, because I don't think we have specified anything, but…
15:34, It starts to show, both the color code, the fonts, the font that we use was, like, you can see the business strategist, and schedule a call, the color| to the buttons.
15:44, And stuff like that. It has actually picked up the logo, Y, right there. And you can see there's a hello at XYZ.com. Since there is no URL, it decided you're just gonna use the LinkedIn there.
15:59, And, I think it's getting pretty close, so let's wait for another second to have this,
16:09, Properly. Oh, interestingly, looks like it actually detected some errors. What it does is sometimes it will take screenshots. So you can see, I see a gradient is working nicely, but the text content seems to be cut off. Let me check the console for errors and fix the layout.
16:23, The code looks correct, the screenshot might just be capturing before the animation finished. Let me take another screenshot and check the layout. And it actually is going through all| to that and kind| 's| to putting it out.
16:37, So, if I kind| 's| to refresh this page, you can see that it is… it is what exactly, you know, kind| 's| to like what we were hoping for. Maybe it needed a better image, and that is something that you have to work on. You can see the connect button is very similar, and then there's this…
16:55, Linkedin is there, and the logo.
16:57, So, it's starting to look pretty good, and at this point, you may wanna, speaking topics, customer-centric growth, like, what does he speak about, and everything else.
17:07, Highly encourage all| to you to start to build your own profile page. This is something simple, and if you want to add something, for example, if you want to add, a sort| to tech leader, if you want to say.
17:20, this, change title.
17:24, To say, this is a vibe coding class.
17:32, And, so that is like, okay, this is not what I wanted. You are able to kind| 's| to quickly do that. You also have the option for a visual edit.
17:41, What it does is, like, the visual edit will allow you to kind| 's| to change certain things. We'll look at it after it's done.
17:52, Okay, first| to all, you can see it says now a VIP coding class instead| to VR Mini, not exactly what we're looking for. It also gives you some recommendation.
18:00, But if I say the visual edit, and if I… this is for something quick, and so this changes from tool to tool. In this case, looks like it's asking me to kind| 's| to just change the design. You can say, green to red, so maybe I just want to go
18:16, red in this particular case, so it is easier because it's not just changing the design, but sometimes it will allow you to kind| 's| to edit specific components and stuff like that. As a vipodic practice.
18:27, I highly recommend not to make too many manual changes, but learn to kind| 's| to control the code. So there you go. Hope to see, please post your,
18:38, post your websites and portals that you have, with the livable.app or any other app that you're using. I'd love to kind| 's| to see and take a look at it. Thank you.
