Video Title: VibePRD: Module 2: The Interview (A)
Duration: 09:07 (Approx)

Transcript:

00:01, Alright, welcome to Day 2.
00:03, Well, we are here in Day 2, and in Day 1,
00:07, What we did is we built
00:09, Just the front-end, non-functional, none of these buttons work.
00:13, But… Great look and feel. Today, I'm gonna go back to Day 2,
00:20, And, in this chat, you know, this is where we will actually make the chat balance alive, right? So if you look at it before this.
00:27, If I say hi, nothing works, because none of this is functional. So what I want to do is, when you type a message and hit send, AI should respond, but not just any AI. Why PRD doesn't generate PRD from a single prompt.
00:42, it actually interviews you first, right? This is the key difference, is like, it's not just generate me a shopping
00:49, Because what, in my product sense, I don't feel there is value in just saying, like, build me a shopping app and it kind of builds you anything. I'd rather have it interview me and ask me questions. Like a great CPO, it asks clarifying questions one at a time.
01:04, What problem are you trying to solve? What has the problem? How will you know if you have solved it? And what are the explicitly not building?
01:14, Only after it has enough context, does it say, I have what I need, ready to generate a PRD, right? This matters, because
01:24, in this… in the new world, prompt is the product, so just because we are able to kind of put a chat product, we just cannot just give people
01:32, the user interface and ask them to kind of just generate random things, because their experience is going to be deprecated, right? We talked about before how we want to do predictive pills and other things. This is in a very similar approach, where we want to actually think about what it is doing.
01:50, Alright, so, before I go in, let me do this. Let me just copy the… the day one.
01:58, prompts…
01:59, And let the models continue, and will I come back and look at what exactly it is. I'm gonna take the section A, and put it in there.
02:12, So what I'm saying here is, make the chat panel functional. When I type a message and press enter, it should send it to AI and response would appear in the chat window, appearing word by word like ChatDP does.
02:26, This is important because a lot of times it just kind of does not show all the responses, and it's called streaming. It may or may not work.
02:35, I actually think it's better to use Anthropic, but this is something that we might be able to kind of change, but I'm saying use Anthropic
02:42, Replit managed, because what I'm saying is, hey, Replit has built-in AI product, actually, right? Which is, instead of you getting an API key from Replit and kind of using it, or OpenRouter, or OpenAI, Replit can bill you directly for the API key, which is a huge advantage, like, in terms of if you are just trying to learn.
03:00, and… or even deploy smaller projects. You don't have to manage multiple places. That's one of the reasons I've chosen Replit as a thing. It has built-in database, authentication, APIs.
03:10, and some of the other things. And select the latest Cloud Sonnet model. So I think Sonnet would be good enough. If you want to move to Opus or something, that is also okay. If you want to select, at some point, a Gemini or ChatGPD or GPD model, that is also okay.
03:25, Do not ask me for an API key, use Replit's AI integration to handle credential automatically. So I just don't want it to kind of ask me those things.
03:34, For now, use a simple system prompt. You are a helpful AI assistant, because each of these models needs to have, like, a system prompt. So I wanted to kind of say, just use an AI assistant. We will replace this with a real prompt in the next step.
03:48, Make sure that the full conversation history is set with each message, so that AI remembers what we already discussed. Do not change the layout, progress bar, or any other UI element.
03:59, This is also very important, like, we really should constrain our models to…
04:06, you know, not too much, right? Sometimes they just want to go out and change a lot of the product, and by putting comments like this, like, do not change the layout, progress bar, yada yada yada, it just kind of brings in that extra, effort, here. Alright, so…
04:22, Where is, okay, there you go.
04:26, So, one of the first things is, if you remember when we started Replit, we started in a design mode, and in the design mode, backend is not allowed, or it's not generally put. The minute we started gonna use
04:39, As we put this prompt, it is going to ask me, do you want to upgrade this to a full-stack application to enable this functionality? I'm just gonna go ahead and say yes.
04:50, Because it's important. Without this, it is not gonna work, so, you know, current is the design, I'm gonna migrate it to app. What it does is it allows you to kind of have any kind of a back-end logic, otherwise it's just a pure HTML, right? You wanna choose design almost never, but in very rare instances where you're building front-end only page.
05:11, or just a web page with HTML and CSS and JavaScript, maybe.
05:15, Right? In most cases, you will have to kind of convert it. So, it is actually… you can see that
05:22, First it has asked to kind of upgrade to a full app, now it lets them make the chat functional, and it is asking, add Anthropic to your app using Replit Managed Services.
05:33, No API key required. Charges are billed to your credit. So it's asking for your permission to come bill you for all the effort. I'm just going to go ahead and approve it. Make sure that you approve that so that you don't have to manage the keys and everything else.
05:47, Alright, so now you can see it's integrating Anthropic, into this. I think it should bring, like, solid, 4 plus something, depending over what it is.
05:57, Over time, you should be able to specify exactly the model, or ask them to kind of give you a settings page where you can choose the model, right? So, we have done an example of that before, so go ahead and take a look at that if this is something that you're gonna…
06:12, Alright, so looks like, it's, it's getting almost ready. Look and feel should not change much.
06:21, But it probably should be working. Now you can say that I will create a DB connection, fix all the issues, and wire everything up, right? So it has not yet wired up, so I'm gonna let it continue. But maybe I'm able to say hi. Looks like not yet, right? So let… anyway, let the code finish.
06:39, And if you're curious, on the top, top right, you can see that this is all the code
06:45, that it has generated. So, if you're really interested in looking at the code and stuff like that, you can see that. There is a database tab. If you don't find it, click on the plus and find the database. From there, you can see that there is a development database.
06:59, And it has no tables yet, but over time, I think it's going to go create a bunch of tables. So, database will be created two types. One would be a development database, and one will be a production database. Once we deploy, production database will be created.
07:17, I'll be right back as soon as this cranking is done.
07:21, See, some of this, I actually highly encourage you guys to read through all the…
07:27, all the output that the left-hand side actually generates. For example, here you can see, now let me update the front-end to wire the chat to the real API with streaming. Now I'll rewrite the front-end chat panel to use the real API with streaming. I need to keep the layout progress bar and the document panel exactly the same. See how our prompts are actually working?
07:46, So you can see various things that's happening. You can see that it is actually fixing some of the errors, it's kind of going through it. It's a very good idea, especially while you're learning, to not just assume that things work, but try to see what's going on behind the scene, and kind of, like, follow along on this.
08:07, Okay, in the meantime, I'm gonna read, like, what does, checkpoint A really means.
08:12, It says that validate, you know, type hello. Does the AI respond with a chat window? That the response is streaming or not? Send a second message, referencing your first. Does the AI remember the context? Is the rest of the AI, still intact, right? Like, so…
08:33, What I'm gonna do is actually go back, and as soon as it's done, we will trypello and try it out.
08:39, Alright, so looks like it's done, and it is asking if I want to publish it. I'm just gonna not do that now. I'm just gonna say hello.
08:49, and see if it actually responds, and I say, what did I say before? Just to kind of see if it remembers the hello or not. You said hello. So, okay. So, I think step A is done. We'll come back and, do the step B.
09:07, Soon after. Alright, thanks.
