Video Title: VibePRD: Module5: Save, Share & Ship (A&B)
Duration: 19:17

Transcript:

00:01: Hey, welcome, everyone. Module 5!
00:05: So, so far, what we have done is we have gone through Module 1 through 4, which means that we have gone through, like, building the shell, we intrude the person who are trying to kind of build the PRD, we drafted the PRD itself.
00:21: We did a review based on what can be improved, and we kind of rated that a little bit, but now it's time to kind of ship the PRD, right? Like, how do you kind of, like, actually get this PRD out to the folks that you care about? So, if you jump over to Module 5 on the canonical doc.
00:41: This section is about, persistence. Save your PRD so that the survivor pays it fresh, because right now it's… everything is generated and kind of put it out, and it kind of goes away. We'll put it into a database.
00:53: We'll enable sharing, generate a link that lets someone else read your PRD, and we'll deploy, right? Push live PRD live, so that it can have a permanent URL.
01:04: So, why this matters? Like, everything you build on day 1 through 4 disappears when you close the browser tab, right? We save the persistent for the last known purposes.
01:13: But, let's just kind of go through and make it work. So let me first copy, checkpoint A, is we're gonna put authentication
01:23: And, also saving part of it. So, I'm just gonna go ahead and…
01:28: Paste this and let it go, and let's just review this to see what's going on, right?
01:34: So let's make YPRD persistent so the users don't lose their work, authentication, and Replit auth via agent, right? So what we are doing here is, like, we are really adding the auth, and we have talked about auth before, but we're using ReplitzAuth auth, which is the easiest to add. Do not hand-roll authentication.
01:53: When a user is logged in, show their username in the header, where the author placeholder was. If there is not logged in, show a sign-in button that triggers the repeat auth flow.
02:05: database, use the built-in repeat Postgres database, create tables to store.
02:10: We want to actually store project titles. So, for right now, just one single project, but we want to create project titles, chart history, just like ChatGPD and others will have it.
02:19: current PRD content, created in last updated time span, and which user owns it. It's because we're gonna allow multiple users. Not collaboration, but multiple users can create this.
02:32: Autosave, when a user generates a PRD, clicks generate PRD, automatically save the project. When a user edits the PRD directly, or clicks Fix It, autosave after they stop making changes for 3 seconds.
02:44: show a small saved indicator in the header when the save completes, right? So this is a visual indicator is important. Project sidebar. So, we're also going to add a sidebar, so if you look at it here.
02:58: So this is where we can see, there is a sidebar actually happening. Look at the previous one, so you are able to kind of see the sidebar, what it looks like.
03:10: than me.
03:11: Scroll back here.
03:15: Add a collapsible sidebar on the far left before the chat panel that shows the list of user-saved projects. Each project shows its title and last updated date. Clicking a project loads its chat history into the left panel and its PRD into the right panel.
03:29: The next chat button should move, to the top sidebar and becomes a new project. Do not change chat logic drafter or reviewer, only add auth database and the project sidebar.
03:43: Okay, so let's see if it has actually completed it. Still cranking through, so let's just wait for it to finish up.
03:53: Looks like it's still cranky.
03:55: Alright, that finished. It's showing me a login here. So I went ahead and added a new, prompt, which is logged out users who just see the login sign-up screen. That way, I don't want them logged out user to be able to kind of generate, the app. I've added that as a prompt here as well.
04:15: Into your… this thing, so kind of, like, that happens, but just know that those are the kind of things that you could also just take a look at it and, do. So now you can see, just, it says Vive PRD, and log in to get started. But I would also like to, see a sign-up, so let's see what they, bring in.
04:36: Right?
04:37: So, it looks like that completed. It's showing me this. Let's see if the sign-up works, as soon as I click on login.
04:45: it kind of pops open and asks me to kind of allow something. Alright, so first of all, it has taken my, name Victor here, it's showing me VR.
04:56: And on the left-hand side, it's showing… I'm gonna run a demo while I kind of look at other things, but it shows projects on the left-hand side, and
05:08: Yeah, let's see if this is… is this collapsible? I think we asked it to be collapsible, but maybe it's not. So, let's come back once the generation is… is done.
05:24: Okay.
05:26: Yeah, it starts to collapse over the long, okay?
05:31: So I'm just going to generate PRD.
05:34: I wonder if we should change it to such that as soon as the chat is started, the chat should come up, or should we all redo it after the generate PR is done? I think that is something that we can figure out. We don't have to necessarily figure it out now.
05:50: What I'm going to do is actually look at the… while it is generating, I want to look at the database, right? So if I go to the database tab, and again, going through plus.
06:00: database, and you can see there's a developer database because we have not published it yet, but if I go in there.
06:08: It shows… these are the following tables. It has the conversation tables, messages table.
06:16: Right? It has conversion ID, role, user or assistant, content,
06:23: projects, because we have the projects on the left-hand sidebar now, sessions, for user authentication, and the user itself. You can see I signed up using this email address.
06:35: And that is there. It has generated now, but I don't see the project, actually being saved.
06:44: So, hmm… I'll just say that… I don't see… The projects being…
06:54: Shaved and shown on the left.
06:58: Sidebar… It should also… Create.
07:05: project.
07:08: As soon as I start chatting.
07:12: Right, so… I'm just gonna copy this as well, I'm gonna let it go.
07:18: I'm gonna update your prompt.
07:22: And, just say that, the new chat button, so move to the top of the sidebar.
07:36: I would say it should create… it should create a project as soon as I start.
07:42: Chatting, without the generation or completion.
07:51: Well, the chat… So that way, it knows that it has to, kind of do that.
07:57: Alright, let's come back here. I'm gonna pause that and come back in a couple of minutes, once it's done.
08:04: All right.
08:05: So, that, that completed, so I'm just gonna refresh it.
08:10: If I say run demo, and I think it has generated an untitled project. It's interesting if… how we should kind of name this.
08:20: Maybe I should say… And name the project.
08:28: appropriately.
08:30: when, generation is started.
08:36: So that it kind of, like, figures out That's tough.
08:42: Okay, once it is there, I'm gonna hit generate.
08:47: Piani?
08:54: And, let's see if it actually saves it.
09:09: Alright, so I'm gonna refresh this page. Oh, it actually does name automatically, so that's pretty good.
09:16: And, but the PRD is missing.
09:20: So… the… So I'm just gonna say the generated… PRE did not save.
09:33: Maybe I didn't wait long enough. So let's… let's… I think that should work, right after this. Hopefully, you're able to kind of refresh it. Let's just kind of review what we did. We are able to kind of log in, we are able to create the PRD through the full flow, interview, generate, and saved indicator up here.
09:51: Actually, I want to see if that indicator kind of appear or not. Refresh the page if the PRD is still there. Can you see it in the sidebar? Create a second project and a different product ideas. So kind of do follow some of these things, right? I'm just gonna quickly…
10:07: we'll pause here for that to finish, so we can actually validate that. So it looks like it found some kind of an issue. Found it. It says that PID was never being saved, so that was an issue, and it's gonna go ahead and… going ahead and fixing it. So, just watch out. That's why testing is, so important.
10:27: And, okay, that works. I'm just gonna, kill through a new…
10:33: Project, run demo, and let's see what happens. Okay, we generated it. Let me try to switch back and forth.
10:43: And… it didn't save.
10:46: So, I'm asking a new prompt here. It's like, still not saving? Is the saving immediate?
10:53: Actually, let me stop that. I'll say still not saving is the saving of…
11:00: PRD immediate. I also don't see the saved indicator.
11:10: part of the BRD.
11:13: So I'm just gonna…
11:15: push it out there, by saying that, and I'll come back, I'll test it out, and I'll come back for you guys. It's interesting, if you can see some of the conversation that the chat is having, you can see that it kind of calls out why this error happens, and this is something that you are most likely gonna face, so…
11:34: Some of this actually goes away with things like Cloud Code and others, if you're using some of the powerful tools.
11:41: Because Replit is great for web-based production, but Cloud Core and others are really just kind of next level in terms of fixing these bugs, automatically. Still, going on. Alright, so that, works, so let me see if I just, start this.
11:59: And I'll come back after generate.
12:04: Alright, so looks like it's fixed.
12:07: Well, I'm gonna… it took me a couple of tries.
12:10: But if I come back here, I can see the smart, grocery store, alright?
12:16: So, with that, I think, why don't we move on to the checkpoint B?
12:21: In case of the checkpoint B,
12:24: what I want to do is, I want to be able to kind of share and export, and deploy this product. So let me first…
12:32: Copy-paste this prompt.
12:33: Here, to see what's going on, and then we'll come back and review, thing.
12:41: So when I add two features, do not refactor anything, just add these on top, right? Because I don't want you to kind of refactor too many things, so this is just precaution.
12:50: Sharing. Add a share button in the right panel header next to the Review My PRD. When clicked, generate a unique link for this PRD, so that I'm able to kind of share with somebody.
13:02: The shared link should show a read-only, beautifully formatted version of the PRD, no chat panel, no editing, no sidebar that anywhere with the link can view without logging in. So it's almost like any other canvas we're able to, in ChatGPD and others, you're able to publish a page.
13:19: Show the link in a small pop-up with copy link button, so this is just a share experience. And the other thing that we are trying to do is add a download as Markdown button next to the share button, if we just want to download it instead of
13:34: Mitchell sharing is a link. When we click download the PRD content as a .MD file, with the project title as the file name.
13:42: Alright, so let's see what's going on here.
13:46: So, one of the things that this may require is actually require us to kind of publish this system, so I'm just gonna go ahead and publish it at the same time.
13:57: I'm gonna… who can access this URL is public. You can… I'm just gonna call it YPRD.
14:03: Let's see if I get that. Oh, cool, I got that, and I'm just gonna enable feedback widget now, made with repeat badge now. I'm just gonna leave the two out.
14:14: And we're gonna try to publish this. So what this will do is this should actually go through provisioning, some kind of a security scan, it builds the project to be deployed, and it also bundles it ultimately for the server, and then it promotes it to the server.
14:33: One of the things you will see is if I go to the all database now, now it has not just the development database, as soon as you hit to production, the same structure is now copied to the production, database. We will have to kind of republish it as well, like, once the new,
14:51: fixes are there. But, you can see that at least we are going through
14:57: Some of the deployment and everything else, so…
15:00: We can find out if there are some issues. Sometimes, if you have issues over here, you may want to just copy-paste the error into the chat and say, hey, we are having this issue, or there might even be a fix-it button, for the deployment here. Alright, so we have deployed that.
15:17: And, let's wait for this, compile to kinda…
15:23: Actually, okay, so looks like it is done. What I'm gonna do is, republish it.
15:30: And let's see what happens. So if I'm just gonna go here… Let's do a new one.
15:39: Just in case, because I don't know where the share button is gonna show up.
15:44: Unfortunately, looks like I don't see the share button, so I'm just gonna go back and ask it. Just say… I just said share button does not show up. So, looks like the models are having a hard time just kind of converging, so we're just gonna try it one more time.
16:02: Alright, so the share button, seems like it's there. Let's… and export.md is there, so we'll figure out if it's actually there or not.
16:12: In the meantime, I've also installed this into the URL ypard.reply.app. That's the URL that I had created. So, looks like it's… that is also working. I'm going to republish that. So, every time you make any change, you have to republish to the main server.
16:30: Otherwise, it does not happen. So, let's see, if the generation actually works.
16:39: And, if that's the case, we can just look at the share button and see if that works as well or not, and able to export the .md file.
16:51: Alright,
16:54: Okay, so let's see the share button. It's like, okay, that's a share button. And I also look at the,
17:02: Okay, so it did download on my… I can see that downloaded .md file on my side. What I want to do is actually try out the share button from the public site. So if I go here,
17:17: copy this and start into a new, new document. So you can see, it actually gives me just the… just the PRD, it does not give me the chat or anything else.
17:28: We can choose if we want to put it behind the login, so that only people who have login can do it. There is a download.md, also included. So, that pretty much worked,
17:40: Pretty good. So, now what we did is,
17:44: We are able to kind of click share, and it appears. Open the link in incognito and private browser window. I think I didn't try the incognito, but I think I'll try that later.
17:54: Click download as a markdown. I tried that, and it opened up, and it did a pretty good job with that. Share the link with a real person, a colleague or a friend. I'm gonna try to share it with a couple of my friends.
18:06: For the deployment, we already did that. Your Replit app is already live at a URL while you're running it, but to make it permanently available, click on deploy, so this is the…
18:16: republish or the deploying, if you go to the publishing flow, that's the deploy. You know, you can choose the right type of VM, we're gonna talk through that in other videos as well. And once you have deployed.
18:30: So what you learned is just, you just added 3 things that separate project from a product, right? We added persistence, sharing, and deployment, right? Like, so the entire shipping has happened. With that.
18:44: congratulations, you just completed the YPRD shadow along. Of course, come back later for bonus points, things like, how do you add org-level context, maybe some kind of a templating.
18:57: How can you export some of these OKRs, into OKRs? How can you export these OKRs into things like Jira or some of the other MCP stuff?
19:05: But at this point, the saddle build is completed, so good luck, and I can't wait to see your YPRD product coming out. Thank you.
